---
tags: []
---
Links: [[2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology]]
___
# 2.A.34
## Standard for Firms
When calculating COMPOSITE NET-OF-FEES returns and [[POOLED FUND NET RETURN|POOLED FUND NET RETURNS]], the FIRM MUST reflect any [[PERFORMANCE-BASED FEE]] [[CLAWBACK]] in the period in which it is repaid.
## Discussion
A clawback is the repayment of previously earned performance-based fees resulting from subsequent underperformance. Beginning 1 January 2020, when calculating composite net-of-fees returns or pooled fund net returns, any performance-based fee clawback must be reflected in the period in which the firm determines previously earned performance fees must be repaid. A firm must not restate returns to eliminate performance-based fees that were previously reflected in returns.

Typically, performance fees reward positive outperformance, whereas no fee is charged when negative excess returns occur. Some performance fee models specify a penalty (negative fee) that must be paid by the manager in the case of negative excess returns, or they may require clawbacks wherein the manager must pay back the performance fee received in the past in the case of underperformance.

The firm may not restate historical net-of-fees performance because of performance fee clawbacks. The clawback is not an error correction of the performance fees accrued and crystallized in the previous periods but represents an actual penalty for the investment manager for underperforming in the current period. Restating historical performance would be misleading. In addition, in the case of pooled funds the performance fee accrued in the previous periods would already have affected the past tradable net asset value (NAV) at which investors subscribed/redeemed fund units. Restating the NAV and performance of prior periods may result in legal obligations toward investors who may need to be compensated for the NAV price differences. Such compensation would be appropriate only in the case of a retrospective error correction. In such a case, the firm must comply with its error correction policies.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions