---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: [[2.B.1]]
___
# 2.A.20
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST value PORTFOLIOS in accordance with the [[COMPOSITE]]-specific or POOLED FUND-specific valuation policy.
## Discussion
When daily calculations are not used, a firm must not value a portfolio “opportunistically” and must follow its composite-specific or pooled fund-specific valuation policies consistently. For example, assume that a firm’s valuation policy is to value portfolios for large cash flows, defined in the composite-specific valuation policy as a single external cash flow equal to or greater than 5% of the portfolio’s beginning-of-month value. For any single external cash flow that is less than 5% of the portfolio’s beginning-of-month value, the firm must not value the portfolio. For any single external cash flow that is equal to or greater than 5% of the portfolio’s beginning-of-month value, the firm must value the portfolio. The firm must apply the composite-specific or pooled fund specific valuation policy consistently and not “cherry-pick” when to value portfolios.

Although a firm must establish a composite-specific valuation policy, that policy may differentiate valuation frequency for different types of portfolios in the composite. For example, suppose that a firm has a composite that includes pooled funds, which are valued daily, and segregated accounts, which are valued monthly and for external cash flows above 5%. The firm may have a different policy for the frequency of valuing pooled funds versus segregated accounts that are included in the same composite. The firm must apply the composite-specific valuation policy consistently, however, based on the valuation frequency for each type of portfolio in the composite.

It is possible that all of a firm’s composites and pooled funds use the same valuation policy; however, the appropriate policy must be determined for each composite and/or pooled fund. The firm must not simply establish this policy on a firm-wide basis without considering whether the policy is appropriate for each composite or pooled fund.

A firm must ensure that its policies for calculating performance address not only assets managed internally but also those managed externally or for which performance is calculated externally. A firm claiming compliance with the GIPS standards that uses external managers and service providers is responsible for having policies and procedures in place to ensure that the relevant outsourced services produce information on which the firm relies that is consistent with the requirements of the GIPS standards and that all GIPS standards requirements have been met.

Policies and procedures should be reviewed regularly to determine if they should be changed or improved, but it is not expected that they will change frequently. A firm must not change a policy retroactively solely to increase performance or to present the firm in a better light. Retroactive changes to policies and procedures should be avoided.

The firm should also conduct periodic testing or other monitoring procedures to ensure that all outsourced policies and procedures are being applied consistently and appropriately.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions