---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: [[2.A.33|2.A.33 Pooled Fund Net Test]]
___
# 2.A.31
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM uses model INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES to calculate COMPOSITE NET-OF-FEES returns, the returns calculated MUST be equal to or lower than those that would have been calculated using actual INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES.
## Discussion
A firm may use model investment management fees to calculate composite net-of-fees returns. When calculating net-of-fees returns using model investment management fees, the model fees should reflect current fees. When initially calculating net-of-fees returns for historical periods, the firm must determine whether it is appropriate to use current fees or the fees that were in effect for the respective historical period. In all cases, net-of-fees returns calculated using model fees must result in net-of-fees returns that are equal to or lower than those that would have been calculated if actual investment management fees had been used. In other words, firms cannot enhance their net returns by switching from actual to model fees.

The model investment management fee must be appropriate to prospective clients. There are times when using the investment management fee that is appropriate to prospective clients as a model fee results in net-of-fees returns that are not equal to or lower than those that would have been calculated using actual investment management fees. If this is the case, to ensure this provision is met, the firm will need to use a model investment management fee that is higher than the current fee that is appropriate to prospective clients. When there are multiple investment management fee schedules, the appropriate model fee used to calculate composite net-of-fee returns may be the highest investment management fee that any prospective client would pay.

A firm may wish to include a second net-of-fees return in a GIPS Report that is created using a model fee specific to a prospective client. If this second net-of-fees return does not meet the requirement of being either equal to or lower than the return that would have been calculated using actual investment management fees, this second net-of-fees return must be labeled as supplemental information. In addition, there must be a disclosure explaining how the firm arrived at the return.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions