---
tags: []
---
Links: [[2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology]]
___
# 2.A.25
## Standard for Firms
When calculating TIME-WEIGHTED RETURNS for POOLED FUNDS that are not included in a [[COMPOSITE]], POOLED FUNDS MUST be valued:

- At least annually.
- As of the calendar or fiscal year end.
- Whenever there are subscriptions to or redemptions from the POOLED FUND.
- As of the period end for any period for which performance is calculated.
## Discussion
For some pooled funds, it may not be possible to strike a net asset value (NAV) or obtain valuations as frequently as is required of other types of portfolios, because of their illiquidity or because the pricing source does not provide the valuations on a monthly or more frequent basis.

If the underlying investments of a pooled fund that is not included in a composite do not lend themselves to monthly valuations and the fund itself is open to client cash flows only on a less frequent (e.g., quarterly) basis, it may be appropriate that valuations are performed on a less frequent than monthly basis. In all cases, valuations must be conducted at least on an annual basis and must take place as of the calendar or fiscal year end.

Although a pooled fund must be valued at least annually, the subscription and redemption cycle for the pooled fund would drive the choice of the periodicity for investment valuation and performance measurement. Therefore, in addition to the requirement for at least a valuation annually, the pooled fund must be valued whenever there are subscriptions to or redemptions from the pooled fund.

The pooled fund must also be valued as of the period end for any period for which performance is calculated.

There may be instances in which some investments in a pooled fund may not be valued because of a holiday. The firm’s policy may be to not strike an NAV or value the pooled fund for that particular day because of the lack of valuations for all securities. For example, assume 31 December is a holiday in some markets and, as a result, 30% of the investments in the XYZ Fund are not valued. Assume the firm’s policy is to not strike an NAV unless at least 75% of the assets are valued, so the last NAV struck is on 30 December. If the difference in performance is material, this fact should be disclosed. The firm should use the benchmark value from 30 December if it is available.

GIPS Reports must include information for annual periods. Many firms present annual returns on a calendar year basis as of 31 December but are not required to do so. For example, a firm may decide to present all performance on a fiscal year basis as of 30 June or some other month end. Firms may change their annual reporting period. For example, a firm may decide to change from calendar-year reporting as of 31 December to fiscal-year reporting as of 30 June. If the firm changes the annual reporting period, it must do so for all annual periods presented in the GIPS Report. The requirement to present returns for annual periods does not prevent the firm from presenting year-to-date returns.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions