---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: [[2.B.8]]
___
# 2.A.43
## Standard for Firms
REAL ESTATE investments in a REAL ESTATE OPEN-END FUND MUST have an EXTERNAL VALUATION at least once every 12 months.
## Discussion
An open-end fund is a pooled fund in which the number of investors is not fixed and the fund is open for subscriptions and redemptions. An open-end fund is considered a real estate open-end fund when it has an investment objective to invest primarily in real estate. An open-end fund that invests in any real estate and uses a real estate benchmark is also considered a real estate open-end fund.

Real estate investments include wholly owned or partially owned:

- investments in land, including products grown from the land (e.g., timber, crops),
- buildings under development, completed buildings, and other structures or improvements,
- equity-oriented debt (e.g., participating mortgage loans), and
- private interest in a property for which some portion of the return to the investor at the time of investment is related to the performance of the underlying real estate.

The following investments are not considered real estate investments, and portfolios that have these investments must follow the provisions of the GIPS standards that are not related to real estate:

- publicly traded real estate securities,
- mortgage-backed securities (MBS) and commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), and
- private debt investments, including commercial and residential loans for which the expected return is solely related to contractual interest rates without any participation in the economic performance of the underlying real estate.

In addition to the requirement to fair value quarterly, real estate investments in a real estate open-end fund are required to have an external valuation at least once every 12 months.

An external valuation is an assessment of value performed by an independent third party who is a professionally designated or certified commercial property valuer or appraiser. In markets where these professionals are not available, steps must be taken to ensure that only qualified independent property valuers or appraisers are used. For additional information regarding an external valuation, please refer to Provision [[2.A.45]].

An external valuation is not required for a property when the property is under a sales contract and the firm believes that the sale will be finalized.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions