---
tags: []
---
Links: [[2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology]]
___
# 2.A.40
## Standard for Firms
When calculating TIME-WEIGHTED RETURNS for PRIVATE MARKET INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOS that are included in [[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]], PRIVATE MARKET INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOS MUST be valued:
- At least quarterly.
- As of each quarter end or the last business day of the quarter.
## Discussion
A portfolio is considered a private market investment portfolio when it has an investment objective to invest primarily in private market investments. Private market investments include real assets (e.g., real estate, insurance-linked securities, collectibles, and infrastructure), private equity, and similar investments that are illiquid, not publicly traded, and not traded on an exchange.

Investments that are not private market investments must be valued at least monthly and at the time of large cash flows. Because of the illiquidity of private market investments, private market investments that are included in composites must be valued at least quarterly if time-weighted returns are being calculated, and they are not required to be valued at the time of large cash flows. Firms may use the Modified Dietz method to calculate the quarterly return. Firms are not required to value private market investment portfolios at the time of large cash flows but may do so. The firm must establish a composite-specific valuation policy, but that policy may specify a different valuation frequency for different types of portfolios in the composite. There may also be cases in which a firm may establish different valuation frequency policies for the same types of portfolios within a composite. For example, the firm may have a private market investment portfolio in a composite that provides for monthly subscriptions and redemptions, and the firm’s policy is to value this portfolio monthly. Another portfolio in this same composite may have the same structure but provides for quarterly subscriptions and redemptions, and so the firm values this portfolio quarterly. The firm must apply the composite-specific valuation policy consistently based on the specified valuation frequency for the portfolios in the composite, but that policy may differentiate valuation frequency for different types of portfolios in the composite. For example, segregated accounts may be valued quarterly, whereas pooled funds are valued monthly. The firm must apply the composite-specific valuation policy consistently based on the valuation frequency for the type of portfolio.

In all cases, however, each private market investment portfolio in the composite must be valued at quarter end or on the last business day of the quarter.

Quarterly valuations are important for investors to be able to compare performance with private market investment benchmarks, which are typically not updated monthly. Quarterly valuations are also needed for comparability with other asset classes and for comparability of data in GIPS Reports. This quarterly valuation requirement can be met by either internal or external valuations.

Private market investments include real estate. For periods prior to 1 January 2008, real estate investments must be valued at least once every 12 months. The annual valuation requirement for periods prior to 1 January 2008 can be met either by internal or external valuations. An internal valuation is a firm’s best estimate of value based on the most current and accurate information available to the firm. Internal valuation methodologies can include applying a discounted cash flow model, using a sales comparison or replacement cost approach, or conducting a review of all significant events (both general market events and asset-specific events) that could have a material effect on the investment. External valuations for real estate are discussed in Provisions [[2.A.43]] and [[2.A.44]].
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions