---
tags: []
---
Links: [[2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology]]
___
# 2.A.48
## Standard for Firms
When calculating returns to be presented to a WRAP FEE PROSPECTIVE CLIENT, returns MUST be calculated net of the entire WRAP FEE. This is applicable to all WRAP FEE PORTFOLIOS in the COMPOSITE as well as any non-WRAP FEE PORTFOLIOS in the [[COMPOSITE]].
## Discussion
A wrap fee is a type of bundled fee specific to a particular investment product. The wrap fee is charged by a wrap fee sponsor for investment management services and typically includes associated transaction costs that cannot be separately identified. Wrap fees can be all-inclusive, asset-based fees, and they may include a combination of investment management fees, transaction costs, custody fees, and/or administrative fees.

When presenting performance to a wrap fee prospective client, performance must be shown net of the entire wrap fee. This requirement applies to all wrap fee portfolios in the composite as well as any non-wrap fee portfolios that are included in the composite.

If a firm has not managed actual wrap fee portfolios in a specific strategy, the firm may create a history from that strategy’s non-wrap fee composite. The wrap fee performance history for that specific strategy may be calculated by using that strategy’s gross-of-fees non-wrap fee composite history reduced by the highest total wrap fee charged to the client (end user) by the wrap fee sponsor for the strategy (product), resulting in net-of-fees wrap fee performance.

It is up to the firm to determine the appropriate highest wrap fee to deduct. This highest wrap fee should be obtained from the prospective wrap fee sponsor and should be comparable to the investment mandate, objective, or strategy of the wrap fee composite.

It is recognized that, when starting with the gross-of-fees non-wrap fee composite history, the gross-of-fees performance already reflects the deduction of actual transaction costs incurred. By then reducing the composite performance by the highest total wrap fee, which includes a portion attributable to transaction costs, performance will reflect the deduction of transaction costs twice (actual transaction costs and a portion of the highest wrap fee). If the firm can identify the portion of the highest total wrap fee attributable to transaction costs, or if the firm can estimate appropriate transaction costs, the firm may first calculate performance reflecting the deduction of both transaction costs and the highest wrap fee. The firm may then increase this result by the identifiable portion of the wrap fee attributable to actual or estimated transaction costs in order to compute a net-of-fees return.

To assist prospective clients and their understanding of the fees charged in these situations, when presenting gross-of-fees returns, firms must disclose if other fees are deducted in addition to the transaction costs. When presenting net-of-fees returns, firms must disclose if any other fees are deducted in addition to the investment management fees and transaction costs.

“Pure” gross-of-fees returns, which represent the return on investments that is not reduced by any transaction costs incurred during the period, are permitted only as supplemental information in a GIPS Composite Report and must be clearly labelled as such.

The following table describes the various returns that can be calculated for wrap fee portfolios:

| Examples of Gross-of-Fees and Net-of-Fees Calculations      |                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                       |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Non-wrap Composite                                          | Presenting to Current Wrap Fee Sponsors and Clients When Unbundling Wrap Fee                                                                                                | Presenting to Prospective Wrap Fee Sponsors and Clients               |
| Return on investments (“pure gross”)<br>– Transaction Costs | Return on investments (“pure gross”)<br><br>- – Portion of wrap fee that includes transaction costs that can be segregated<br><br>Or<br><br>- – Estimated transaction costs | Return on investments (“pure gross”)                                  |
| **Gross-of-fees return**                                    | **Gross-of-fees return**                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                       |
| – Investment management fee                                 | – Portion of wrap fee that includes an investment management fee that can be segregated  <br>Or  <br>– Model investment management fee                                      | – Model Wrap Fee  <br>Or  <br>– Actual Wrap Fee                       |
| **Net-of-fees return**  <br>– Administrative Fee            | **Net-of-fees return**<br><br>- – Remaining portion of wrap fee<br><br>(administrative fees, if any)                                                                        |                                                                       |
| Client return                                               | Client return                                                                                                                                                               | Gross-of-fees return  <br>**Net-of-fees return**  <br>**Client return |
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions