---
tags: []
---
Links: [[2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology]]
___
# 2.A.9
## Standard for Firms
TRADE DATE ACCOUNTING MUST be used.
## Discussion
For periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005, trade date accounting must be used. For the purpose of complying with the GIPS standards, trade date accounting is defined as recognizing the asset or liability on the date of purchase or sale and not on the settlement date. Recognizing the asset or liability within three business days of the date the transaction is entered into (the trade date T, T + 1, T + 2, or T + 3) satisfies the trade date accounting requirement for purposes of the GIPS standards. Settlement date accounting recognizes the asset or liability on the date when the exchange of cash and investments is completed.

For purchases, when using settlement date accounting, any movement in value between the trade date or booking date and the settlement date will not affect performance until the settlement date. For purchases, when using trade date accounting, the change in value will be reflected for each valuation between trade date and settlement date. Performance comparisons between portfolios and/or composites that use settlement date accounting and those that use trade date accounting may not be valid. The same problem occurs when comparing settlement date portfolios and composites with their benchmarks.

The principle behind requiring trade date accounting is to ensure there is not a significant lag between trade execution and reflecting the trade in the performance of a portfolio. For the purpose of compliance with the GIPS standards, portfolios are considered to satisfy the trade date accounting requirement provided that transactions are recorded and recognized consistently and within normal market practice – typically, a period between trade date and up to three business days after trade date (T + 3).

For some pooled funds, firms may need to differentiate between the date of placing a subscription/redemption order and the date of the effective asset ownership transfer. The date of the execution or transfer of ownership (in this case, when the definitive quantity and settlement price of the asset being purchased/sold is determined and becomes known) should be considered the trade date.

External cash flows are typically booked on the date when they are actually received or distributed. If a firm receives notification of incoming funds and trades on a pre-announced external cash inflow before it is received into the portfolio, the portfolio will become leveraged during the period between the trade date and the date when the external cash inflow is physically received. To “cover” this additional exposure and eliminate the leverage effect, firms may choose to apply the trade date and settlement date principles to pre-arranged external cash flows by booking the external cash flow with a trade date that reflects the date the firm may trade in advance of the external cash inflow and a settlement date that reflects the date when the cash is received. If the firm chooses to match the trade date of pre-announced external cash flows to the trade date of trades related to those external cash flows, it should establish this as its policy and treat all pre-announced external cash flows consistently.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions