---
tags: []
---
Links: [[2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology]]
___
# 2.A.17
## Standard for Firms
For PORTFOLIOS invested in underlying POOLED FUNDS, all returns must reflect the deduction of all fees and expenses charged at the underlying POOLED FUND level, unless the FIRM controls the [[INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE|INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES]] of the underlying POOLED FUNDS. When the FIRM controls the [[INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE|INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES]] of the underlying POOLED FUNDS, the FIRM may calculate [[GROSS-OF-FEES]] returns that do not reflect the deduction of the underlying POOLED FUND [[INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE|INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES]].
## Discussion
If presenting returns for portfolios invested in underlying pooled funds, all returns must reflect the deduction of all fees and expenses charged at the underlying pooled fund level, because investors must pay these fees. When the firm controls the investment management fees of the underlying pooled funds, however, it may calculate gross-of-fees returns that do not reflect the deduction of the underlying pooled fund investment management fees. An investment management fee includes both asset-based and performance-based fees. In such situations, the firm can present the gross-of-fees returns gross of the underlying funds’ investment management fees but net of the underlying funds’ transaction costs and other expenses. The following represent some situations in which this criterion is met:
- Both underlying funds and the fund-of-funds are managed by the same firm, and there is effectively a fee rebate or waiver at the fund-of-funds level for those fees charged at the underlying fund level.
- A fund-of-funds that resembles a master-feeder structure or a segregated portfolio that invests in one or multiple underlying funds managed by the same firm. Its investment management fee model is structured so that the investment management fee is either partially or fully charged at the underlying fund level.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions