---
tags: []
---
Links: [[2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology]], [[2.A.13]] [[2.A.37]]
___
# 2.A.38
## Standard for Firms
COMPOSITE NET-OF-FEES returns MUST reflect the deduction of [[TRANSACTION COSTS]] and [[INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE|INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES]].
## Discussion
Transaction costs are the costs of buying or selling investments. These costs typically take the form of brokerage commissions, exchange fees and/or taxes, and/or bid-offer spreads from either internal or external brokers. Custodial fees charged per transaction should be considered custody fees and not transaction costs. For real estate, private equity, and other private market investments, transaction costs include all legal, financial, advisory, and investment banking fees related to buying, selling, restructuring, and/or recapitalizing investments but do not include dead deal costs.

For portfolios invested in underlying pooled funds, the firm must deduct all fees and expenses charged at the underlying pooled fund level, unless the firm controls the investment management fees of the underlying pooled funds. When the firm controls the investment management fees of the underlying pooled funds, the firm may calculate gross-of-fees returns that do not reflect the deduction of the underlying investment management fees.

Investment management fees are the fees payable to the investment management firm for the ongoing management of a portfolio. They are typically asset based (based on a percentage of assets), performance based (based on the performance of the portfolio on an absolute basis or relative to a benchmark), or a combination of the two, but they may take other forms as well. Investment management fees also include carried interest. A net-of-fees return is the gross-of-fees return from which investment management fees are deducted. Therefore, composite net-of-fees returns must reflect the deduction of both transaction costs and investment management fees.

The GIPS standards do not require a specific calculation methodology for accounting for investment management fees when calculating net-of-fees returns for either portfolios or composites. The firm must develop a calculation methodology that generates performance that is not misleading, presents performance fairly, and is applied consistently.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions