---
tags: []
---
Links: [[2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology]]
___
# 2.A.36
## Standard for Firms
COMPOSITE [[TIME-WEIGHTED RETURN|TIME-WEIGHTED RETURNS]] MUST be calculated by using one of the following approaches:
- Asset-weighting the individual PORTFOLIO returns using beginning-of-period values;
- Asset-weighting the individual PORTFOLIO returns using a method that reflects both beginning-of-period values and [[EXTERNAL CASH FLOW|EXTERNAL CASH FLOWS]]; or
- Using the aggregate method.
## Discussion
A composite is defined as an aggregation of one or more portfolios managed according to a similar investment mandate, objective, or strategy. The objective in calculating the composite’s return is to use a method that will conceptually produce the same value as if the assets of all the individual portfolios in the composite were aggregated and a return is calculated as if the composite were one portfolio.

The GIPS standards are based on the principle of asset-weighted composite returns. For example, if a composite contains two portfolios, one of which is 10 times the size of the other, the rate of return for the larger portfolio should have more of an effect on the composite return than the rate of return for the smaller portfolio. The asset-weighted return methods satisfy this principle by weighting each portfolio’s contribution to the composite rate of return by its beginning value (as a percentage of the composite’s beginning value) or by its beginning value plus weighted external cash flows (as a percentage of the composite’s beginning value plus weighted external cash flows). The GIPS standards require asset weighting of the portfolio returns within a composite by using beginning-of-period values, by using beginning-of-period values plus weighted external cash flows, or by aggregating portfolio assets and external cash flows to calculate performance as a single master portfolio.

When calculating composite returns for a specific period, only portfolios that are included in the composite for the entire performance period are included in the calculation. For example, when calculating monthly composite returns, only those portfolios that are managed on a discretionary basis for the full month are included in the composite return calculation. Portfolios that begin during the month, close during the month, or are otherwise determined to not qualify for inclusion in the composite for the full month must not be included in the composite return calculation. If a firm wishes to include in composite returns portfolios that do not have a full month of performance, the firm must calculate composite returns more frequently than monthly (e.g., daily). Assuming a firm calculates composite returns daily, the firm would include in the daily composite return calculation only those portfolios that were managed for the full day. Firms must create and document policies and procedures for calculating composite returns and follow those policies and procedures consistently.

The following are examples of methods that a firm may use when asset-weighting individual portfolio returns when calculating composite time-weighted returns.

[[TIME-WEIGHTED RETURN#Beginning Assets Weighting Method|Beginning Assets Weighting Method]]
[[TIME-WEIGHTED RETURN#Beginning Assets Plus Weighted External Cash Flow Method|Beginning Assets Plus Weighted External Cash Flow Method]]
[[TIME-WEIGHTED RETURN#Aggregate Return Method|Aggregate Return Method]]
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions