---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: [[2.A.37]] [[2.A.38]]
___
# 2.A.13
## Standard for Firms
All returns MUST be calculated after the deduction of TRANSACTION COSTS incurred during the period. The FIRM may use estimated TRANSACTION COSTS only for those PORTFOLIOS for which actual TRANSACTION COSTS are not known.
## Discussion
Transaction costs are defined as the costs of buying or selling investments. These costs typically take the form of brokerage commissions, exchange fees and/or taxes, and/or bid-offer spreads from either internal or external brokers. Custodial fees charged per transaction should be considered custody fees and not transaction costs. For real estate, private equity, and other private market investments, transaction costs include all legal, financial, advisory, and investment banking fees related to buying, selling, restructuring, and/or recapitalizing investments but do not include dead deal costs.

Both gross-of-fees returns and net-of-fees returns must reflect the deduction of transaction costs incurred in the purchase or sale of investments. Transaction costs must be deducted when calculating performance because these are costs that must be paid in order to implement the investment strategy. A firm may use estimated transaction costs only for those portfolios whose actual transaction costs are not known. It is the firm’s responsibility to determine if there are any regulatory requirements that would prohibit the use of estimated transactions costs. If such regulatory requirements exist, estimated transaction costs must not be used.

When a portfolio’s transaction costs are not known, a reasonable estimate of transactions costs (i.e., an estimate that the firm judges to be a fair approximation of actual transaction costs) may be used. Some approaches for determining a reasonable estimate of transactions costs include basing estimated transactions costs on:
- actual transaction costs for portfolios that the firm manages in the same or similar strategy, or
- actual transaction costs for similar securities that trade in a similar market.

The estimate of transaction costs may take the form of a percentage cost that can be applied to the portfolio return to determine the portfolio return after the deduction of those costs, or as a monetary value. If a monetary value is used, for costs that are based on the size of the transaction, the firm should scale the monetary transaction cost estimate sourced from a similarly managed portfolio to the monetary value of the portfolio.

For wrap fee portfolios, if the firm is able to obtain estimated transaction costs from wrap fee sponsors, it should use the highest estimated transaction costs. For the treatment of estimated transaction costs in bundled fee portfolios, please refer to Provision [[2.A.14]].

Regardless of the approach used, the firm must have documentation supporting the transaction costs on which the estimate is based.

Firms that use estimated transaction costs must document their policies and procedures for estimating transaction costs, along with the rationale for their method of estimating transaction costs, and apply the policies consistently. The methodology and assumptions used to estimate transactions costs must be periodically reviewed to ensure that the policies are still judged to result in a reasonable estimate of transaction costs.

Finally, in some markets brokers offer zero commission trades. If a portfolio is paying zero commissions, then it is appropriate to calculate portfolio gross-of-fees and net-of-fees returns that reflect zero transaction costs. However, the zero-transaction cost must not be used as a model transaction cost for other portfolios. When a composite includes portfolios that pay zero commissions, firms should disclose this fact. Not disclosing this fact could be misleading.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions