---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: 
___
# 2.A.30
## Standard for Firms
When calculating COMPOSITE NET-OF-FEES returns, INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES used in the calculation MUST be either:
- Actual INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES incurred by each PORTFOLIO in the [[COMPOSITE]], or
- A model INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE appropriate to PROSPECTIVE CLIENTS.
## Discussion
For composites, a net-of-fees return is defined as the gross-of-fees return reduced by investment management fees. Investment management fees are the fees payable to the investment management firm for the ongoing management of a portfolio, and these fees include performance-based fees and carried interest. They are typically asset based (based on a percentage of assets), performance based (based on the performance of the portfolio on an absolute basis or relative to a benchmark), or a combination of the two, but they may take other forms as well.

When calculating net-of-fees returns for a composite, the investment management fees used in the calculation must be either the actual investment management fees incurred by each portfolio in the composite or a model investment management fee appropriate to prospective clients. Using either of these approaches provides a realistic representation of the expected effect of fees on performance and satisfies the GIPS standards fundamental principles of fair representation and full disclosure.

When initially calculating net-of-fees returns for historical periods using model fees, the firm must determine whether it is appropriate to use a model based on current investment management fees or the investment management fees that were in effect for the respective historical period.

The GIPS standards do not require a specific calculation methodology for accounting for investment management fees when calculating net-of-fees returns for either portfolios or composites. The firm must develop a calculation methodology that generates performance that is not misleading, presents performance fairly, and is applied consistently. The firm’s choice regarding whether actual investment management fees or model investment management fees are used in calculating net-of-fees returns must be documented in the firm’s policies and procedures on a composite-specific basis. The firm must also document whether current or historical model fees are used for historical periods when initially calculating net-of-fees returns.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions