---
tags: []
---
Links: [[2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology]]
___
# 2.A.27
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST establish a [[POOLED FUND INCEPTION DATE]] for each [[POOLED FUND]] to determine when the [[POOLED FUND|POOLED FUND’S]] track record begins.
## Discussion
For periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020, firms must establish a pooled fund inception date for each pooled fund to determine when the pooled fund’s track record begins. The inception date for a broad distribution pooled fund is typically the date when the fund strikes the first net asset value (NAV). For a limited distribution pooled fund, the pooled fund inception date may be based on the following dates:
1. when investment management fees are first charged,
2. when the first investment-related cash flow takes place,
3. when the first capital call is made, or
4. when the first committed capital is closed and legally binding.
When presenting money-weighted returns (MWRs) with and without a subscription line of credit, firms must clearly label or identify the period covered by each MWR that is presented.

For example, assume a pooled fund track record with the line of credit begins 1 July 2020 and represents the date of the first capital call. The pooled fund track record without the line of credit begins 16 May 2019 and represents the date of the first fund investment.

For a pooled fund, the performance start date of the track record could be different depending on whether the pooled fund is included in a composite. For example, assume a unitized pooled fund started on 19 July and strikes its first NAV on that day. If the firm includes the pooled fund in a composite, it will follow the composite’s new portfolio inclusion criteria and the pooled fund will be included in the composite according to the firm’s composite inclusion criteria (e.g., first full month under management). If the firm creates a GIPS Pooled Fund Report for the same fund, the inception date for calculating performance to include in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report will likely be the date the pooled fund strikes its first NAV (i.e., 19 July).
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions