---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: 
___
# 2.A.28
## Standard for Firms
When calculating MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURNS, the FIRM MUST value PORTFOLIOS at least annually and as of the period end for any period for which performance is calculated.
## Discussion
When calculating a money-weighted return (MWR), a firm must value portfolios at least annually and as of the period end for any period for which performance is calculated. Valuations must be in accordance with the definition of fair value. A more frequent valuation is considered good business practice and is recommended.

When calculating time-weighted returns (TWRs), valuations at the time of large cash flows and at period end are needed because those valuations are inputs to the TWR calculation. In a true TWR calculation, sub-period returns are calculated either daily or at the time of each external cash flow and then geometrically linked together to derive a return for the period.

For MWRs, valuations are needed only at the end of the period being measured. In addition, many portfolios for which MWRs are calculated involve private market investments with valuations that are generally performed on a less frequent basis because they are illiquid securities. For these reasons, when calculating an MWR, firms must value portfolios at least annually and as of the period end for any period for which performance is calculated, rather than monthly and at the time of large cash flows.

More-frequent valuations are generally required for client reporting purposes and are considered good business practice.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions