---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: 
___
# 2.A.32
## Standard for Firms
When calculating POOLED FUND NET RETURNS, TOTAL POOLED FUND FEES used in the calculation MUST be either:
- Actual TOTAL POOLED FUND FEES, or
- A model TOTAL POOLED FUND FEE appropriate to PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS.
## Discussion
A pooled fund net return is defined as the pooled fund gross return reduced by all fees and costs, including investment management fees, administrative fees, and other costs. Pooled fund net returns do not reflect the deduction of sales charges and loads that are associated with buying or selling shares of a pooled fund.

When calculating a pooled fund net return, a firm may use either actual total pooled fund fees or a model total pooled fund fee appropriate to prospective investors. The firm may use the total expense ratio as the model total pooled fund fee, if the total expense ratio includes all fees and costs. If the total expense ratio does not include all fees and costs, such as performance-based fees, the firm must also deduct the additional fees and costs when calculating pooled fund net returns. Using either actual total pooled fund fees or a model total pooled fund fee appropriate to pooled fund prospective investors provides a realistic representation of the expected effect of fees on the pooled fund’s returns and satisfies the GIPS standards fundamental principles of fair representation and full disclosure.

When initially calculating pooled fund net returns for historical periods using model fees, the firm must determine whether it is appropriate to use current total pooled fund fees or the total pooled fund fees that were in effect for the respective historical period.

The GIPS standards do not require a specific calculation methodology for accounting for total pooled fund fees when calculating net-of-fees returns for pooled funds. The firm must develop a calculation methodology that generates performance that is not misleading, presents performance fairly, and is applied consistently. The firm’s choice regarding whether the actual total pooled fund fees or a model total pooled fund fee are used in calculating pooled fund net returns must be documented in the firm’s policies and procedures on a pooled fund-specific basis. When using model fees, the firm must also document whether current or historical fees are used for historical periods when initially calculating pooled fund net returns.

Firms have the following options when calculating pooled fund net returns using actual fees where the pooled fund has multiple share classes:
- Deduct from the pooled fund gross return the highest total pooled fund fee of any individual share class in the fund.
- Calculate pooled fund net returns using a weighted average of actual pooled fund net returns from all share classes.

Different pooled fund share classes may be issued to differentiate among certain investor groups for tax reasons and/or to allow for different fee structures. In some situations, it may be impossible to definitively determine which total pooled fund fee is the highest among the share classes within the pooled fund, such as when each share class has a mix of fixed and performance-based investment management fees. In this instance, it is acceptable to use the model total pooled fund fee that is applicable to the specific pooled fund prospective investor, as long as doing so results in pooled fund net returns that are equal to or lower than those that would have been calculated if using actual (effectively charged) total pooled fund fees. (See Provision [[2.A.33]].)

The same concept applies when there are multiple series within a share class. Assuming there are multiple series within Share Class A, and the firm is presenting pooled fund net returns based on Share Class A, the firm should either present a weighted net return of all series within Share Class A or reduce the gross return by the total pooled fund fees from the oldest or initial series to reflect the performance a prospective investor would have received had the investor been invested in the pooled fund since its inception. The firm may take either approach as long as doing so results in pooled fund net returns that are equal to or lower than those that would have been calculated if using actual (effectively charged) total pooled fund fees. (See Provision [[2.A.33]].)

Although a firm must disclose if model or actual fees are used to calculate pooled fund net returns, when net returns are not straightforward and/or have multiple assumptions, additional disclosure about pooled fund net return calculations may be needed to ensure that the principle of full disclosure is met.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions