---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 2.A.16
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST calculate performance in accordance with its [[COMPOSITE]]-specific or POOLED FUND-specific calculation policies.
## Discussion
A firm must create composite-specific and/or pooled fund-specific policies for calculating the performance of its portfolios and composites. It must apply these policies consistently when calculating performance. A firm must ensure that its policies for calculating performance address not only assets managed internally but also those managed externally, or for which performance is calculated externally. A firm claiming compliance with the GIPS standards that uses external managers and service providers is responsible for having policies and procedures in place to ensure that the relevant outsourced services produce information on which the firm relies that is consistent with the requirements of the GIPS standards and that all GIPS standards requirements have been met.

Although it is not possible to list all of the items that must be included in a firm’s policies and procedures for calculating the performance of its portfolios and any composites, the following are examples of some of the items that a firm must address in its policies and procedures relating to performance calculation:
- How the firm ensures that the information from third-party service providers meets the requirements of the GIPS standards and can be used, as necessary, to produce returns that comply with the GIPS standards;
- The policies for estimating transaction costs, if estimated transaction costs are used;
- The fees and expenses deducted when calculating gross-of-fees returns and net-of-fees returns;
- The methodology for calculating a time-weighted return (TWR) for portfolios and composites for which the firm presents a TWR;
- The methodology for calculating a money-weighted return (MWR) for portfolios and composites for which the firm presents an MWR;
- The calculation methodology for portfolios with external cash flows;
- The treatment of reclaimable withholding taxes when recording interest income and dividends; How model investment management fees are calculated, if used in calculating net-of-fees returns; The treatment of performance-based fee clawbacks, if any; and
- The treatment of side pockets, if any.

Although a firm must establish a composite-specific or pooled fund-specific calculation policy, that policy may differentiate calculations used for different types of portfolios in the composite. For example, suppose that a firm has a composite that includes pooled funds, which use a daily TWR calculation methodology, and segregated accounts, which use a Modified Dietz return (with revaluations for large cash flows) calculation methodology. The firm may have a different policy for the return calculation methodologies used for pooled funds versus segregated accounts that are included in the same composite. The firm must apply the composite-specific calculation policy consistently, however, based on the return calculation methodology for each type of portfolio in the composite.

It is possible that all of a firm’s composites and pooled funds use the same calculation policy; however, the appropriate policy must be determined for each composite and/or pooled fund. The firm must not simply establish this policy on a firm-wide basis without considering whether the policy is appropriate for each composite or pooled fund.

A firm’s policies and procedures for calculating performance must be designed to ensure that the firm adheres to all applicable laws and regulations regarding the calculation and presentation of performance. Firms must establish policies and procedures to ensure that performance and performance-related information does not include false or misleading information.

Policies and procedures should be reviewed regularly to determine if they should be changed or improved, but it is not expected that they will change frequently. A firm must not change a policy retroactively solely to increase performance or to present the firm in a better light. Retroactive changes to policies and procedures should be avoided.

The firm should also conduct periodic testing or other monitoring procedures to ensure that all outsourced policies and procedures are being applied consistently and appropriately.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions