---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: 
___
# 2.A.22
## Standard for Firms
[[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]] and POOLED FUNDS MUST have consistent beginning and ending annual valuation dates. Unless the COMPOSITE or POOLED FUND is reported on a non-calendar fiscal year, the beginning and ending valuation dates MUST be at calendar year end or on the last business day of the year.
## Discussion
It is required that composites and pooled funds have consistent beginning and ending annual valuation dates. Such consistency will result in improved comparability of data. Unless the composite or pooled fund is reported on a non-calendar fiscal year, the beginning and ending valuation dates of the composite or pooled fund must be at calendar year end or on the last business day of the year. Portfolios in a composite must also have consistent beginning and ending valuation dates corresponding to the reporting period. If the composite or pooled fund beginning or ending annual valuation dates fall on a weekend or a holiday, the firm should use the valuation on the last business day of the period. If there is an available benchmark value on the same day as the ending valuation day for the composite or pooled fund, the firm should use the benchmark value from the ending valuation day for the composite or pooled fund. If the composite or pooled fund ending annual valuation date differs from that of the benchmark, this difference should be disclosed. For example, if the annual period end and the last valuation falls on 30 December because of the New Year’s Eve holiday but the end of the annual period for the benchmark falls on 31 December, any material difference in performance should be disclosed. The firm should use the benchmark value from 30 December if it is available.

Note that a firm’s composites and/or pooled funds may have different year-end valuation dates if one or more of the firm’s composites or pooled funds is reported on a non-calendar fiscal year, whereas other composites and/or pooled funds are reported as of calendar year end or on the last business day of the year. The annual valuation dates must correspond to the reporting dates for the composite or pooled fund. It is important, however, that the annual periods within a GIPS Report are consistent. For example, a GIPS Pooled Fund Report that reports a pooled fund’s performance annually as of 30 June, its fiscal year end, must consistently report data for years ending 30 June for the pooled fund. The firm may decide in the future to create a GIPS Pooled Fund Report for the pooled fund based on a 31 December valuation and reporting date; however, the firm may not mix 30 June and 31 December annual reporting periods in the same GIPS Pooled Fund Report and must report all annual returns as of the calendar year end.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions