---
tags: []
---
Links: [[2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology]]
___
# 2.A.24
## Standard for Firms
When calculating [[TIME-WEIGHTED RETURN|TIME-WEIGHTED RETURNS]] for all PORTFOLIOS except PRIVATE MARKET INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOS (see [[2.A.41]]) included in [[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]], the FIRM MUST:
- Calculate returns at least monthly.
- Calculate monthly returns through the calendar month end or the last business day of the month.
- Calculate sub-period returns at the time of all [[LARGE CASH FLOW|LARGE CASH FLOWS]], if daily returns are not calculated.
- For [[EXTERNAL CASH FLOW|EXTERNAL CASH FLOWS]] that are not [[LARGE CASH FLOW|LARGE CASH FLOWS]], calculate PORTFOLIO returns that adjust for daily-weighted [[EXTERNAL CASH FLOW|EXTERNAL CASH FLOWS]], if daily returns are not calculated.
- Treat [[EXTERNAL CASH FLOW|EXTERNAL CASH FLOWS]] according to the FIRM’S [[COMPOSITE]]-specific policy.
- Geometrically [[LINK]] periodic and sub-period returns.
- Consistently apply the calculation methodology used for an individual PORTFOLIO.
## Discussion
Provision 2.A.24 applies to all portfolios included in composites except private market investment portfolios. Please refer to Provision [[2.A.41]] for the requirements regarding the calculation of a time-weighted return ([[TIME-WEIGHTED RETURN|TWR]]) for private market investment portfolios included in composites.

TWRs measure the firm’s performance and attempt to negate or neutralize the effect of external cash flows to or from the client. The GIPS standards do not require a specific method to be used to calculate TWRs but do require the return methodology to meet certain criteria.

Although it is required that TWRs be calculated at least monthly, many firms calculate daily returns. If daily returns are not calculated, a firm must calculate sub-period returns for portfolios at the time of all large cash flows in order to calculate a more accurate TWR. A large cash flow is the level at which the firm determines that an external cash flow may distort performance if the portfolio is not valued at the time of the external cash flow. A large cash flow is defined by the firm for each composite to determine when the portfolios in that composite are to be valued for performance calculations. Firms must define the amount, for each composite, in terms of the value of the cash/asset flow or in terms of a percentage of the portfolio assets or the composite assets. Firms must also determine if a large cash flow is a single external cash flow or an aggregate of a number of external cash flows within a stated period of time.

For periods beginning on or after 1 January 2001, firms must calculate portfolio TWRs at least monthly. When calculating and presenting performance in a GIPS Composite Report, calculating returns for portfolios at different end dates does not allow for the comparability of information. Therefore, to facilitate comparability, for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010, firms must calculate monthly returns as of the calendar month end or the last business day of the month.

The actual valuation of the portfolio’s investments and calculation of return each time a large cash flow occurs will result in a more accurate TWR calculation than using either the [[TIME-WEIGHTED RETURN#Original Dietz Method|Original Dietz method]] or the [[TIME-WEIGHTED RETURN#Modified Dietz Method|Modified Dietz method]], but it is less accurate than a “true” TWR calculation methodology, which requires valuation and return calculation with every external cash flow.

When calculating the TWR for portfolios, periodic and sub-period returns must be linked geometrically.

The [[TIME-WEIGHTED RETURN#Internal Rate of Return (IRR) Method|IRR method]] is an acceptable method to use to calculate a TWR when no large cash flows occur during the sub-period. To create a TWR, the IRRs before and after the large cash flow are calculated and then linked together geometrically.

A firm must create a composite-specific policy for the treatment of external cash flows for each of its composites and must apply that policy consistently. For example, the same definition of a large cash flow must be used when evaluating a cash flow for all portfolios within the composite. Policies and procedures for the calculation methodology used for an individual portfolio must also be created and applied consistently.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions