---
tags: []
---
Links: [[2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology]]
___
# 2.A.5
## Standard for Firms
Total FIRM [[OVERLAY EXPOSURE]] MUST include all discretionary and non-discretionary [[OVERLAY STRATEGY]] PORTFOLIOS for which the FIRM has investment management responsibility.
## Discussion
For periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020, total firm overlay exposure must include all discretionary and non-discretionary overlay strategy portfolios for which the firm has investment management responsibility. When calculating total firm overlay exposure, firms must sum the overlay exposures of all overlay portfolios managed even if different allowable methods are used to calculate the portfolios’ overlay exposure. To calculate overlay exposure, a firm may use the notional value of the overlay strategy portfolios, the value of the underlying portfolios being overlaid, or a specified target exposure. If overlay exposure is maintained in different currencies, the firm must convert the overlay exposure to the currency used in the GIPS Report. For purposes of calculating total firm overlay exposure, firms must not recalculate overlay exposures to a single method.

For example, assume Firm A offers two types of overlay strategies. In one strategy, called “Global Equity Beta Overlay,” the composite overlay exposure of €500 million is calculated using the notional exposure of all portfolios in the composite at period end. In the second strategy, “Active Currency Overlay,” the composite overlay exposure of €750 million is calculated using the value of the underlying portfolios at period end. Firm A would calculate total firm overlay exposure of €1,250 million by summing €500 million and €750 million.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions