---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 2.A.14
## Standard for Firms
For PORTFOLIOS with [[BUNDLED FEE|BUNDLED FEES]], if the FIRM cannot estimate TRANSACTION COSTS or if actual TRANSACTION COSTS cannot be segregated from a [[BUNDLED FEE]]:
- When calculating GROSS-OF-FEES returns, returns MUST be reduced by the entire [[BUNDLED FEE]] or the portion of the [[BUNDLED FEE]] that includes the TRANSACTION COSTS.
- When calculating NET-OF-FEES returns, returns MUST be reduced by the entire [[BUNDLED FEE]] or the portion of the [[BUNDLED FEE]] that includes the TRANSACTION COSTS and the INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE.
## Discussion
A bundled fee portfolio has a fee structure that combines multiple fees into one total or “bundled” fee. Bundled fees can include any combination of investment management fees, trading costs, custody fees, and/or administrative fees. Two examples of bundled fees are wrap fees and all-in fees. Calculations of gross-of-fees and net-of-fees returns for all portfolios, including bundled fee portfolios, must reflect the deduction of transaction costs incurred by the portfolio during the measurement period.

A gross-of-fees return is the return on investments reduced by any transaction costs incurred during the period. When calculating a bundled fee portfolio’s gross-of-fees return, if the firm can identify the portion of the bundled fee that includes the transaction costs, that is the only portion of the bundled fee that must be reflected in the performance calculation. If the firm is unable to determine the portion of the bundled fee that includes the transaction costs and is unable to determine an appropriate estimate of transaction costs, then the entire bundled fee must be deducted when calculating the bundled fee portfolio’s gross-of-fees return.

A net-of-fees return is the gross-of-fees return reduced by investment management fees, which include both performance-based fees and carried interest. A net-of-fees return must, therefore, reflect the deduction of both transaction costs and investment management fees. To meet the requirements of the GIPS standards when calculating a bundled fee portfolio’s net-of-fees return, if the firm can identify the portion of the bundled fee that includes transaction costs and investment management fees, that is the only portion of the bundled fee that must be reflected in the performance calculation. If the firm is unable to identify the portion of the bundled fee that includes transaction costs and investment management fees, and it is unable to determine an appropriate estimate of transaction costs and an appropriate model investment management fee, then the entire bundled fee must be reflected (i.e., reduce performance) when calculating the bundled fee portfolio’s net-of-fees return.

A pure gross-of-fees return is the return on investments that is not reduced by any transaction costs incurred during the period. When presenting returns for a composite of portfolios with bundled fees, it is permitted to show a pure gross-of-fees return as supplemental information.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions