---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: 
___
# 2.A.2
## Standard for Firms
TOTAL FIRM ASSETS, COMPOSITE assets, and POOLED FUND assets MUST:
- Include only actual assets managed by the FIRM.
- Be calculated net of discretionary leverage and not grossed up as if the leverage did not exist.
## Discussion
Total firm assets, composite assets, and pooled fund assets must include only actual assets managed by the firm. Assets represented by simulated, back tested, or model performance must not be included in total firm assets, composite assets, or pooled fund assets because such assets do not represent actual assets managed by the firm. Because uncalled committed capital is not considered to be actual assets managed by the firm, composite assets or pooled fund assets must not include uncalled committed capital for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020. This is consistent with the requirement to not include uncalled committed capital in total firm assets for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020. (See Provision [[2.A.1]].)

When a composite or pooled fund strategy employs discretionary leverage, the composite or pooled fund assets and total firm assets must be presented net of the discretionary leverage and not grossed up as if the leverage did not exist. Discretionary leverage refers to loans taken at the investment manager’s discretion. For example, if the firm is managing a fund that has $200 million in assets and the firm chooses to borrow $50 million, the fund’s net assets are $200 million and its gross assets are $250 million. Because the firm chose to lever the fund, the firm must use net assets of $200 million when calculating total firm assets.

In contrast, non-discretionary leverage refers to borrowings that are mandated by or undertaken by the client. Non-discretionary leverage is not deducted when calculating total firm assets, composite assets, or pooled fund assets. For example, if the client gave the firm $250 million to manage, of which the client has borrowed $50 million, the amount of assets included in total firm assets is $250 million. The fact that the client borrowed $50 million of the assets given to the firm does not influence the calculation of the firm’s total firm assets.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions