---
tags: []
---
Links: [[2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology]]
___
# 2.A.3
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST NOT double count assets when calculating TOTAL FIRM ASSETS, COMPOSITE assets, or POOLED FUND assets.
## Discussion
Firms are prohibited from double counting assets when calculating total firm assets, composite assets, or pooled fund assets. If double counting is not eliminated, assets reported will be inflated and result in a misleading GIPS Report. For firms that include portfolios in more than one composite, create carve-outs, or manage portfolios that invest in the firm’s pooled funds (e.g., portfolios that invest in the firm’s short-term money market fund), care must be taken to ensure assets are not counted more than once.

As an example, suppose that Firm XYZ has one Eurozone fixed-income composite that contains the following three portfolios:
- Portfolio 1: a pooled fund invested in Eurozone bonds with net assets of €20 million,
- Portfolio 2: a second pooled fund invested in Eurozone bonds of several Eurozone countries with net assets of €30 million, and
- Portfolio 3: a segregated account invested entirely in the two pooled funds already mentioned. Net assets of this segregated account are €10 million.

These three portfolios are the only portfolios within Firm XYZ. The firm asks the following questions:
- What is the correct number of portfolios in the Eurozone fixed-income composite?  
    The Eurozone fixed-income composite would have three portfolios in the composite.
- What is the correct amount of composite assets in the Eurozone fixed-income composite?  
    The Eurozone fixed-income composite would have three portfolios in the composite, with composite assets of €50 million. Presenting composite assets of €60 million – thus including €10 million from Portfolio 3, which is invested entirely in Portfolio 1 and Portfolio 2 – is misleading, and those assets would be double counted.

GIPS® Standards Handbook for Firms: Explanation of the Provisions in Sections 1–8

|Portfolio|Invested In|Net Assets (€ millions)|Composite Assets/ Firm Assets (€ millions)|
|---|---|---|---|
|1|Eurozone bonds|20|20|
|2|Eurozone bonds|30|30|
|3|Portfolios 1 and 2|10||
|Total||60|50|

- What is the correct amount of composite assets that should be included in total firm assets?  
    Composite assets of €50 million would also be included in total firm assets. Total firm assets would also be €50 million. 
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions