---
tags: []
---
Links: [[2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology]]
___
# 2.A.15
## Standard for Firms
All REQUIRED returns MUST be calculated net of discretionary leverage, unless otherwise specified.
## Discussion
All required returns must be calculated net of discretionary leverage, unless otherwise specified. Discretionary leverage refers to loans taken at the firm’s discretion. For example, suppose that a client gives the firm $1 million to manage. The firm then borrows another $500,000. The net of discretionary leverage amount (i.e., the assets on which performance is calculated) is $1 million, not $1.5 million, which is the gross of discretionary leverage amount.

In contrast, non-discretionary leverage refers to borrowings that are mandated by or undertaken by the client. For example, suppose that a client gives the firm $1.5 million to manage, of which the client has borrowed $500,000. In this case, the amount of assets on which performance is calculated is $1.5 million. The fact that the client borrowed $500,000 of the assets given to the firm does not influence the calculation of the firm’s performance.

Firms that use subscription lines of credit and calculate and present since-inception money-weighted returns (MWRs) are required to present MWRs both with and without the subscription line of credit. Considering only the subscription line of credit, and ignoring any other leverage that may exist, the return with the subscription line of credit is considered a levered return and the return without the subscription line of credit would be considered an unlevered return. The one exception to the requirement to present MWRs both with and without the subscription line of credit is included in Provision [[7.A.2]]. A firm is required to only present returns with the subscription line of credit, and not returns without the subscription line of credit, when it is presenting an MWR and the subscription line of credit has both of the following characteristics:
- The principal was repaid within 120 days using committed capital drawn down through a capital call;
- No principal was used to fund distributions.

Other than the exception for subscription lines of credit in Provision [[7.A.2]], the rationale for requiring that all returns be calculated net of discretionary leverage is that an unlevered return is hypothetical, and it is not appropriate for a firm to include such a return when calculating the performance of a portfolio or a composite. Unlevered performance that does not reflect the deduction of discretionary leverage is permitted to be presented only as supplemental information.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions