---
tags: []
---
Links: [[2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology]]
___
# 2.A.11
## Standard for Firms
Returns from cash and cash equivalents MUST be included in all return calculations, even if the FIRM does not control the specific cash investment(s).
## Discussion
Returns earned on cash and cash equivalents held in portfolios must be combined with the returns of other assets in the portfolio to calculate the portfolio’s return. The firm’s asset allocation decisions, including allocation to cash, are a component of investment strategy implementation and thus part of the portfolio’s return.

If the firm does not control the actual investment of cash (e.g., cash is always invested in a custodial money market fund or invested separately by the client) but does control the amount of the portfolio that is allocated to cash, then the cash assets must be included in the firm’s total assets and the performance of cash must be included in the portfolio performance.

This is true even if a client-selected cash vehicle “breaks” the $1.00 net asset value (NAV). A break occurs when the NAV of a money market fund falls below the $1.00 NAV. This scenario may happen when the money market fund’s investment income does not cover operating expenses or investment losses. Because the firm chose to have portfolio assets “invested” in cash and cash equivalents, it is responsible for the performance of this investment and the change in NAV must be included in the total return of the portfolio. Additionally, the firm must continue to include the portfolio in the respective composite. The fact that the investment of cash is technically not under the firm’s control will not generally affect the portfolio’s returns as much as the allocation of assets to cash, which is under the firm’s control.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions