---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: 
___
# 2.A.49
## Standard for Firms
All COMPOSITE and POOLED FUND returns MUST include the effect of any discretionary SIDE POCKETS held by PORTFOLIOS in the COMPOSITE or the POOLED FUND.
## Discussion
A side pocket is a segregated investment that is used mainly in alternative investment pooled funds, such as hedge funds, funds of funds, and other alternative investment funds, to separate illiquid or distressed assets from other, more liquid investments or to segregate investments held for a special purpose from other investments. Side pockets are typically not available for investing for new pooled fund investors that invest after the side pocket has been created. All composite and pooled fund returns must include the effect of any discretionary side pockets held by portfolios in the composite or the pooled fund. The fact that future investors will not be participating in the performance of the side pocket is not a valid argument to exclude the side pocket from composite or pooled fund performance.

Firms may choose to also present returns without side pockets. Prospective clients and investors may be interested in the performance history without the effect of the side pocket because they will not be participating in the performance of the side pocket going forward.

A firm may exclude the effect of a non-discretionary side pocket on composite or pooled fund returns, just as firms may exclude non-discretionary assets from a portfolio’s performance. A side pocket can be classified as non-discretionary only when all of the following criteria are met:
- The side pocket is segregated in a separate sub-portfolio (e.g., at the custodian bank or in the portfolio management system of the firm).
- The side-pocketed assets are no longer considered in the asset allocation and portfolio investment process.
- There are no investment decisions for the side-pocketed assets, except for monitoring and liquidating.
- There are no or reduced investment management fees charged on the side-pocketed assets.

A side pocket created at the express direction of a client may be considered non-discretionary and excluded from the performance of the composite or pooled fund, as if it were an unmanaged asset.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions