---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: 
___
# 2.A.29
## Standard for Firms
When calculating MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURNS, the FIRM MUST:
- Calculate annualized SINCE-INCEPTION MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURNS.
- Calculate MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURNS using daily EXTERNAL CASH FLOWS.
- Include stock [[DISTRIBUTION|DISTRIBUTIONS]] as EXTERNAL CASH FLOWS and value stock [[DISTRIBUTION|DISTRIBUTIONS]] at the time of [[DISTRIBUTION]].
- When calculating pooled fund net returns, calculate pooled fund net returns that are net of TOTAL POOLED FUND FEES.
## Discussion
A money-weighted return (MWR) is a return that reflects the change in value and the timing and size of external cash flows. One commonly used method for calculating an MWR is to calculate an internal rate of return (IRR). In general, the IRR is the implied discount rate or effective compounded rate of return that equates the present value of cash outflows with the present value of cash inflows. The since-inception internal rate of return (SI-IRR) is a specific version of the IRR in which the measurement period of the MWR covers the entire investment period since inception.

Unlike when using IRR to calculate a time-weighted return (TWR), using IRR to calculate an MWR does not involve the calculation or linking of sub-period returns. A single IRR is calculated for the entire period.

It is also required that, when calculating pooled fund net returns for inclusion in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report, the pooled fund net returns are net of total pooled fund fees. Total pooled fund fees include all fees and expenses charged to the pooled fund, including investment management fees, administrative fees, and other expenses. Total pooled fund fees do not include sales charges and loads that are associated with buying or selling shares of a pooled fund.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions