---
tags: []
---
Links: [[2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology]]
___
# 2.A.41
## Standard for Firms
When calculating [[TIME-WEIGHTED RETURN|TIME-WEIGHTED RETURNS]] for PRIVATE MARKET INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOS that are included in [[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]], the FIRM MUST:

- Calculate returns at least quarterly.
- Calculate quarterly returns through the calendar quarter end or the last business day of the quarter.
- Calculate PORTFOLIO returns that adjust for daily-weighted [[EXTERNAL CASH FLOW|EXTERNAL CASH FLOWS]].
- Treat [[EXTERNAL CASH FLOW|EXTERNAL CASH FLOWS]] according to the FIRM’S [[COMPOSITE]]-specific policy.
- Geometrically [[LINK]] periodic and sub-period returns.
- Consistently apply the calculation methodology used for an individual PORTFOLIO.
## Discussion
A portfolio is considered a private market investment portfolio when it has an investment objective to invest primarily in private market investments.

Private market investments include real assets (e.g., real estate, insurance-linked securities, collectibles, and infrastructure), private equity, and similar investments that are illiquid, not publicly traded, and not traded on an exchange.

Because private market investments do not trade publicly like stocks and bonds do, the return calculation requirements differ for private market investments. The portfolio calculation frequency is aligned with the minimum valuation frequency, which is quarterly; therefore, firms must calculate portfolio returns at least quarterly.

As of 1 January 2010, firms must calculate quarterly returns through the calendar quarter end or the last business day of the quarter when calculating time-weighted returns (TWRs) for private market investment portfolios included in composites. Consistency in return calculation dates will result in improved comparability of data for all GIPS Reports.

Because most portfolios within a composite experience external cash flows, which can often be unpredictable and are usually client driven, it is important that the calculation of portfolio TWRs adjust for daily-weighted external cash flows that occur during the calculation period. This is required for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010. When calculating TWRs that adjust for daily-weighted external cash flows, periodic and sub-period returns must be geometrically linked.

Private market investments do not trade publicly like marketable securities do, and thus they do not have valuations readily available on a monthly basis or at the time of external cash flows.

Therefore, firms are not required to value private market investment portfolios and to calculate sub-period returns at the time of large cash flows and to geometrically link these sub-period returns to calculate monthly TWRs, as is required for portfolios that are not private market investment portfolios. Instead, firms must calculate returns for private market investment portfolios at least quarterly and may use methods that adjust for daily-weighted external cash flows, such as the Modified Dietz or the internal rate of return (IRR) methods.

As explained in the discussion for Provision [[2.A.24]], the Modified Dietz and IRR methods are money-weighted return methods. By means of geometric linking of the periodic Modified Dietz or IRR returns, TWRs can be approximated. Firms must create composite-specific policies with respect to the methodology used in calculating returns for private market investment portfolios and must apply these policies consistently to the individual portfolios included in the composite.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions