---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: [[2.A.31|2.A.31 Composite Net Test]]
___
# 2.A.33
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM uses model [[TOTAL POOLED FUND FEES]] to calculate [[POOLED FUND NET RETURN|POOLED FUND NET RETURNS]], the returns calculated MUST be equal to or lower than those that would have been calculated using actual [[TOTAL POOLED FUND FEES]].
## Discussion
A firm may use model total pooled fund fees to calculate pooled fund net returns. When calculating pooled fund net returns using model total pooled fund fees, the model fees should reflect current fees. When initially calculating pooled fund net returns for historical periods, the firm must determine whether it is appropriate to use current total pooled fund fees or the total pooled fund fees that were in effect for the respective historical period. In all cases, pooled fund net returns calculated using model total pooled fund fees must result in pooled fund net returns that are equal to or lower than those that would have been calculated if actual total pooled fund fees had been used. In other words, firms cannot enhance their net returns by switching from actual to model fees.

The model total pooled fund fee must be appropriate to prospective investors. There are times when using the total pooled fund fee that is appropriate to prospective investors as a model fee results in net returns that are not equal to or lower than those that would have been calculated using actual total pooled fund fees. If this is the case, to ensure this provision is met, the firm will need to use a model total pooled fund fee that is higher than the current fee that is appropriate to prospective investors. When there are multiple total pooled fund fee schedules, the appropriate model fee may be the highest total pooled fund fee that any prospective investor would pay.

A firm may wish to include a second net return in a GIPS Report that is created using a model fee specific to a prospective investor. If this second net return does not meet the requirement of being either equal to or lower than the return that would have been calculated using actual total pooled fund fees, the second net return must be labeled as supplemental information. In addition, there must be a disclosure explaining how the firm arrived at the return.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions