---
tags: []
---
Links: [[2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology]]
___
# 2.A.50
## Standard for Firms
When calculating [[MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURN|MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURNS]] for [[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]] and POOLED FUNDS without the SUBSCRIPTION LINES OF CREDIT, the FIRM MUST include the cash flows from the SUBSCRIPTION LINES OF CREDIT.
## Discussion
A subscription line of credit is a loan facility that is usually put in place to facilitate administration when firms are calling for funds from investors. It is secured by limited partner commitments.

Subscription lines of credit are being used by more firms and for longer periods. These lines of credit can have a significant effect on returns. As has been widely discussed in the industry, there has also been a lack of consistency in return calculations when lines of credit are used. The purpose of Provision 2.A.50 is to help standardize the calculation of returns for composites and pooled funds that include a subscription line of credit, thereby increasing the comparability of returns from one firm to another.

Firms that use subscription lines of credit must calculate and present the since-inception money-weighted return (MWR) that includes the subscription line of credit. Firms are required to also calculate a since-inception MWR that does not include the subscription line of credit unless the subscription line of credit has the following two characteristics:
- The principal was repaid within 120 days using committed capital drawn down through a capital call.
- No principal was used to fund distributions.

The following example illustrates the MWRs calculated with and without the subscription line of credit. Note that the return with the subscription line of credit, which some may think of as being a levered return, is the return for which the period for the performance calculation is shortened, resulting in a higher return in an up market and a lower return in a down market. We refer to this as the return “with” the subscription line of credit because the period could not be shortened unless the subscription line of credit was used. The return without the subscription line of credit assumes the line of credit was not used and capital was called to fund investments. In the following example, we can think of the return without the subscription line of credit as being the return on the investment, whereas the return with the subscription line of credit is the return the investor (limited partner) would earn if a subscription line of credit was used.

| A   | B           | C                         | D              | E              |
| --- | ----------- | ------------------------- | -------------- | -------------- |
| 1   |             |                           | Net MWR        | Net MWR        |
| 2   |             |                           | With           | Without        |
| 3   |             |                           | Subscription   | Subscription   |
| 4   |             |                           | Line of Credit | Line of Credit |
| 5   |             |                           |                |                |
| 6   | Date        | Transaction Type          | Cash Flow      | Cash Flow      |
| 7   | 6-Jan-2020  | Subscription LOC Drawdown |                | -1,000,000     |
| 8   | 1-Jul-2020  | Subscription LOC Drawdown |                | -500,000       |
| 9   | 1-Oct-2020  | Subscription LOC Drawdown |                | -500,000       |
| 10  | 15-Dec-2020 | Capital Call              | -2,000,000     |                |
| 11  | 1-Oct-2021  | Capital Call              | -1,000,000     | -1,000,000     |
| 12  | 31-Dec-2021 | Ending Fair Value         | 3,500,000      | 3,500,000      |
| 13  |             | SI-MWR                    | 21.47%         | 13.28%         |

When using the XIRR formula in Excel, firms must include the first cell that contains the first capital call or subscription line of credit drawdown. For example, the XIRR formula for the Net MWR with Subscription Line of Credit is =XIRR(C10:C12,A10:A12,0.1), where C10:C12 reflects the cash flows and ending value. A10:A12 reflects the dates of the cash flows and ending value, and the 0.1 is a guess of what the IRR will be. If firms omit the guess, Excel assumes it is 10% or 0.1. Generally, a guess is not required. Note that the XIRR annualizes the result. If calculating for a period that is less than a year, firms will need to calculate the non-annualized return. See Provision [[2.A.12]] for the formula to calculate the non-annualized return.

Firms that are required to present returns both with and without the subscription line of credit must present comparable returns in GIPS Reports. If presenting gross returns, the firm must present gross returns with the subscription line of credit and without the subscription line of credit. The same is true for net returns. If presenting net returns, the firm must present net returns with the subscription line of credit and without the subscription line of credit.

When calculating returns without the subscription line of credit, firms may also exclude interest expense associated with the subscription line of credit. Firms should consider disclosing whether interest expense and other subscription line of credit costs are or are not reflected in the return without the subscription line of credit.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions