---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 2.A.18
## Standard for Firms
When calculating [[ADDITIONAL RISK MEASURES]]:
- The [[PERIODICITY]] of the COMPOSITE or POOLED FUND returns and the BENCHMARK returns MUST be the same.
- The risk measure calculation methodology of the COMPOSITE or POOLED FUND and the BENCHMARK MUST be the same.
## Discussion
Evaluating past performance requires an understanding of the risks taken to achieve the results. The firm may choose to present additional risk measures for a composite or pooled fund and for the benchmark that it determines are appropriate for the composite’s or pooled fund’s investment mandate, objective, or strategy. An additional risk measure is a risk measure included in a GIPS Report beyond those required to be presented. A firm may choose to present a proprietary measure of risk as an additional risk measure, but it must describe the proprietary measure of risk that is presented and explain why it was selected.

The periodicity of the composite or pooled fund and the benchmark must be identical when calculating additional risk measures. Periodicity refers to the length of the period over which a variable is measured (e.g., composite performance calculated monthly has monthly periodicity). As an example, if a firm is calculating an additional risk measure for a composite or pooled fund that has monthly returns and a benchmark that has quarterly returns, the firm would be required to use quarterly composite or pooled fund returns, not monthly returns, when calculating an additional risk measure. The firm must also determine that there are enough data points for the selected measure to be statistically significant so as not to be misleading.

It is also required that the risk measure calculation methodology of the composite or pooled fund and the benchmark be the same. Firms are required to select a calculation methodology on a composite-specific or pooled fund-specific basis, document the methodology in their policies and procedures, and consistently apply that methodology. Firms are required to maintain records supporting all calculations presented in GIPS Reports.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions