---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: 
___
# 2.A.26
## Standard for Firms
When calculating TIME-WEIGHTED RETURNS for POOLED FUNDS that are not included in a [[COMPOSITE]], the FIRM MUST:
- Calculate returns at least annually.
- Calculate annual returns through the calendar or fiscal year end or the last business day of the year.
- Calculate sub-period returns at the time of all subscriptions and redemptions.
- Geometrically LINK periodic and sub-period returns.
- When calculating POOLED FUND NET RETURNS, calculate POOLED FUND NET RETURNS that are net of TOTAL POOLED FUND FEES.
## Discussion
If the underlying investments of a pooled fund that is not included in a composite do not lend themselves to monthly valuations and the pooled fund itself is open to client cash flows only on a less frequent (e.g., quarterly) basis, it may be appropriate to calculate time-weighted returns (TWRs) on a less frequent than monthly basis. In all cases, returns must be calculated at least annually through the calendar or fiscal year end or through the last business day of the year.

In addition to the requirement that TWRs be calculated at least annually, sub-period returns must be calculated whenever there are subscriptions to or redemptions from the pooled fund. This means that pooled funds use a “true” [[TIME-WEIGHTED RETURN|TWR]] calculation methodology, which requires valuation and return calculation with every external cash flow. 

It is also required that, when calculating pooled fund net returns, the pooled fund net returns are net of total pooled fund fees. Total pooled fund fees include all of the fees and expenses charged to the pooled fund, including investment management fees, administrative fees, and other expenses. Total pooled fund fees do not include sales charges and loads that are associated with buying or selling shares of a pooled fund.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions