---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: [[2.B.1]]
___
# 2.A.23
## Standard for Firms
When calculating TIME-WEIGHTED RETURNS for PORTFOLIOS that are included in [[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]], all PORTFOLIOS except PRIVATE MARKET INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOS (see [[2.A.40]]) MUST be valued:
- At least monthly.
- As of the calendar month end or the last business day of the month.
- On the date of all [[LARGE CASH FLOW|LARGE CASH FLOWS]]. The FIRM MUST define [[LARGE CASH FLOW]] for each COMPOSITE to determine when PORTFOLIOS in that COMPOSITE MUST be valued.
## Discussion
The requirements contained in Provision [[2.A.23]] apply to a firm’s portfolios that are included in composites, with the exception of private market investment portfolios. For the valuation requirements for private market investment portfolios, firms should refer to Provision [[2.A.40]] and related guidance.

To improve the accuracy of time-weighted performance calculations, the GIPS standards have gradually increased the minimum required frequency of portfolio valuation from quarterly, to monthly, to the date of all large cash flows.

When calculating time-weighted returns for portfolios included in composites, all portfolios (with the exception of private market investment portfolios) must be valued at least monthly. Valuing portfolios included in the composite at different end dates does not allow for comparability of information. Firms must be consistent in defining the monthly valuation period to allow for comparability of data for all GIPS Composite Reports. It is also required that the calculation period must end on the same day as the reporting period. In other words, firms must value the portfolios included in a composite on the last day of the reporting period or the nearest business day. For periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010, firms must value portfolios as of the calendar month end or the last business day of the month.

In addition to the requirement for firms to value portfolios included in a composite at least monthly, firms are required to value all portfolios included in a composite on the date of all large cash flows, if the portfolios are not valued daily. A large cash flow, defined by the firm for each composite, is the level at which the firm determines that an external cash flow may distort performance if the portfolio is not valued. The firm must determine in advance (i.e., on an ex ante basis) what is considered to be a large cash flow on a composite-specific basis. Firms must define the amount in terms of the value of cash/asset flow or in terms of a percentage of the portfolio assets or the composite assets. Firms must also determine if a large cash flow is a single external cash flow or an aggregate of a number of external cash flows within a stated period. The determination of the large cash flow level may be influenced by a variety of factors, such as the strategy’s nature, its historical and expected volatility, and its targeted cash level.

A firm must not establish a high large cash flow level solely for the purpose of reducing the number of instances when portfolios must be valued because of large cash flows. The firm also must not base the policy on the degree to which the large cash flow affects the return. The large cash flow level chosen by the firm on a composite-specific basis must represent the firm’s estimate of the level of external cash flow that would potentially distort the accuracy of a portfolio’s performance calculation if the portfolio is not valued at the time of the external cash flow.

It is possible that all of a firm’s composites have the same level of large cash flows; however, the appropriate level must be determined for each composite. The firm must not simply establish this level on a firm-wide basis without considering whether the level is appropriate for each portfolio or composite.

Revaluing portfolios as of the close of the business day prior to a large external cash flow is acceptable if external cash flows are assumed to take place at the beginning of the day.

When applying these provisions, it should be remembered that private market investment portfolios have separate valuation requirements. Firms should refer to the valuation table included in Provision [[2.A.19]] for additional guidance on valuation requirements, including the valuation requirements for private market investments.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions