---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: [[2.B.8]]
___
# 2.A.45
## Standard for Firms
[[EXTERNAL VALUATION|EXTERNAL VALUATIONS]] for REAL ESTATE investments MUST be performed by an independent third party who is a professionally designated or certified commercial property valuer or appraiser. In markets where these professionals are not available, the FIRM MUST take necessary steps to ensure that only qualified independent property valuers or appraisers are used.
## Discussion
An external valuation must be performed by an independent third party who is a professionally designated or certified commercial property valuer/appraiser. In Europe, Canada, and parts of Southeast Asia, the predominant professional designation is that of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). In the United States, the professional designation is Member of the Appraisal Institute (MAI). In Australia, the designation is Certified Practicising Valuer from the Australian Property Institute. In markets where these professionals are unavailable, steps must be taken to ensure that only qualified independent valuers or appraisers are used. Even if no credentialed professionals are available, it would be unusual to not find a well-qualified independent valuer or appraiser who can value a property in a particular market.

The external valuation process must adhere to practices of the relevant valuation governing and standard setting body. Although appraisal standards may allow for a range of estimated values, it is recommended that a single value (final value conclusion) be obtained from external valuers or appraisers because only one value can be used for performance reporting.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions