---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: 
___
# 2.A.7
## Standard for Firms
When calculating OVERLAY STRATEGY PORTFOLIO returns, the FIRM MUST:
- Use as the denominator the notional exposure of the OVERLAY STRATEGY PORTFOLIOS, the value of the underlying PORTFOLIO being overlaid, or a specified target exposure.
- Use the same method for all PORTFOLIOS within a [[COMPOSITE]].
## Discussion
When calculating returns for an overlay strategy portfolio, the denominator must be one of the following:
- the notional exposure of the overlay strategy portfolios as of the beginning of the period,
- the value of the underlying portfolio being overlaid as of the beginning of the period, or
- the specified target exposure as of the beginning of the period, which can be defined as a target exposure or determined by a formula used to calculate the target exposure for each period.

Some overlay strategies require the use of a specific denominator. For example, when an interest rate overlay is benchmarked to a set of cash flows, the notional amount of derivatives required to hedge the interest rate exposure will not equal the present value of the cash flows being hedged because the notional amount will vary depending on the instruments chosen to implement the hedge. An interest rate overlay return calculated by dividing the profit/loss earned by the portfolio during the period by the notional exposure of the instruments used would not be comparable to the change in present value of the cash flows being hedged. Therefore, the denominator for an interest rate overlay benchmarked to a set of cash flows must be the sum of the present value of the cash flows being hedged as of the beginning of the period.

The same method for calculating the denominator must be used for all portfolios within a composite when calculating overlay strategy portfolio returns. In addition, this same method must be used to calculate a composite’s total overlay exposure.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions