---
tags: []
---
Links: [[2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology]]
___
# 2.A.47
## Standard for Firms
When calculating NET-OF-FEES returns of [[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]] containing [[CARVE-OUT|CARVE-OUTS]], the [[INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE|INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES]] for the [[CARVE-OUT|CARVE-OUTS]] MUST be representative of the [[INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE|INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES]] charged or that would be charged to the [[PROSPECTIVE CLIENT]]:
- When presenting performance to a [[PROSPECTIVE CLIENT]] for a standalone PORTFOLIO, the [[INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE]] MUST be representative of the [[INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE|INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES]] for a standalone PORTFOLIO managed according to that strategy.
- When presenting performance to a [[PROSPECTIVE CLIENT]] for a multi-asset strategy PORTFOLIO, the [[INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE]] MUST be representative of the [[INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE|INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES]] for a multi-asset strategy PORTFOLIO managed according to that strategy.
## Discussion
A carve-out is a portion of a portfolio that is by itself representative of a distinct investment strategy. It is used to create a track record for a narrow mandate from a multi-strategy portfolio managed to a broader mandate. For example, an equity composite may include the equity portions of balanced accounts wherein these equity portions are managed according to the same investment strategy as standalone portfolios.

For a composite that includes carve-outs, the presentation of performance to a prospective client must adhere to the fundamental GIPS standards principle of fair representation. The net-of-fees performance for a composite that includes carve-outs that is presented to a prospective client for a standalone portfolio must be calculated using an investment management fee that is representative of the investment management fees for a standalone portfolio managed to that strategy. Similarly, the net-of-fees performance for a composite that includes carve-outs that is presented to a prospective client for a multi-asset strategy portfolio must be calculated using an investment management fee that is representative of the investment management fees that would be charged for a multi-asset strategy portfolio managed according to that multi-asset strategy.

For example, assume Firm B manages a balanced strategy that contains both an equity and a fixed-income component, and the firm wants to carve out the equity component to create an equity composite. Firm B charges a 0.50% investment management fee for its balanced strategy. The equity strategy will charge a 0.75% investment management fee. When calculating and presenting net-of-fees returns to prospective clients interested in the equity strategy, the firm must use 0.75% as the investment management fee when calculating net-of-fees returns.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions