---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: 
___
# 2.A.1
## Standard for Firms
[[TOTAL FIRM ASSETS]]:
- MUST be the aggregate FAIR VALUE of all discretionary and non-discretionary assets managed by the FIRM. This includes both fee-paying and non-fee-paying PORTFOLIOS.
- MUST include assets assigned to a SUB-ADVISOR provided the FIRM has discretion over the selection of the SUB-ADVISOR.
- MUST NOT include [[ADVISORY-ONLY ASSETS]].
- MUST NOT include uncalled [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]].
## Discussion
### Total Firm Assets
Total firm assets include all discretionary and non-discretionary assets for which a firm has investment management responsibility. Total firm assets include assets assigned to a sub-advisor provided the firm has discretion over the selection of the sub-advisor. All portfolios included in total firm assets must be considered for inclusion in composites.

For periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011, firms must value all discretionary and non-discretionary assets in accordance with the definition of fair value. Fair value is defined in the GIPS standards as the amount at which an investment could be sold in an arm’s-length transaction between willing parties in an orderly transaction. The valuation must be determined using the objective, observable, unadjusted quoted market price for an identical investment in an active market on the measurement date, if available. In the absence of an objective, observable, unadjusted quoted market price for an identical investment in an active market on the measurement date, the valuation must represent the firm’s best estimate of the fair value. Fair value must include any accrued income.

The requirement to value all assets at fair value applies to assets in both fee-paying and non-fee-paying portfolios. Total firm assets must reflect the fair value of all discretionary and non-discretionary assets within the firm definition. For periods prior to 1 January 2011, total firm assets must be the aggregate of the fair value or market value of all discretionary and non-discretionary assets under management within the defined firm.

Some firms use a sub-advisor to manage part or all of a particular strategy. For example, if a firm specializes in managing equities, it might hire a sub-advisor to manage its fixed-income assets. If a firm has discretion over selecting (i.e., can hire and/or fire) the sub-advisor, the firm must include the assets managed by the sub-advisor in total firm assets. If the firm does not have discretion over sub-advisor selection, it must not include the sub-advised assets in total firm assets, composite assets, or pooled fund assets.

A firm retains the responsibility for its claim of compliance for all its assets, including its discretionary sub-advised assets and their reported performance. Therefore, all discretionary sub-advised assets must be treated by the firm in the same manner as assets managed internally and must be subject to the same policies and procedures as internally managed assets. If the firm intends to place reliance on information from sub-advisors, it must ensure that the records and information provided by the sub-advisor meet the requirements of the GIPS standards.

For reliance on third-party records and information, please refer to Provision [[1.A.26]].

Total firm assets must include:
- assets for which the firm has either conditional or unconditional authority to make investment decisions,
- fee-paying assets (wherein a fee is payable to the firm for the ongoing management of a portfolio’s assets) and non-fee-paying assets (wherein no fee is payable to the firm for the ongoing management of a portfolio’s assets),
- assets managed outside the firm (e.g., by sub-advisors) for which the firm has asset allocation (assignment) authority (i.e., the firm has discretion over the selection of the sub-advisor), and
- cash and cash equivalents (substitutes).

Note that although non-fee-paying assets may be excluded from composites, they must be included in total firm assets.

Total firm assets must exclude:
- advisory-only assets,
- uncalled committed capital, and
- overlay exposure.

### Advisory-Only Assets
Advisory-only assets are assets for which the firm provides investment recommendations and for which two conditions are met. The firm:
- has no control over implementation of investment decisions, and
- does not have trading authority over the assets.

There is an important distinction between advisory-only assets, which are excluded from total firm assets, and non-discretionary portfolios that are included in total firm assets. In the case of a non-discretionary segregated account that is included in total firm assets, the account has documented client-imposed restrictions that significantly hinder a firm from fully implementing its intended strategy. Although the account is considered non-discretionary because the intended strategy cannot be fully implemented, the firm is responsible for managing the account, including the trading of its assets. In the case of an advisory-only account, the firm does not manage the account and has no trading authority for the account. The firm offers investment advice only. Unlike non-discretionary accounts, an advisory-only account does not simply have restrictions that might prevent an intended strategy from being implemented. The firm has no direct authority to manage or trade the account. For this reason, the account must not be included in any composite and must not be included in total firm assets.

Although advisory-only assets may not be included in total firm assets, a firm may wish to report firm-wide advisory-only assets. If a firm chooses to present information on its advisory-only assets, it may present advisory-only assets as either:
- a separate value, or
- the combination of total firm assets and firm-wide advisory-only assets.

If the firm wishes to present a combination of total firm assets and firm-wide advisory-only assets, it must also present firm-wide advisory-only assets for the same periods for which the combination of total firm assets and firm-wide advisory-only assets is presented.

### Uncalled Committed Capital
Committed capital is defined as pledges of capital to an investment vehicle by investors (limited partners and the general partner) or the firm and is typically drawn down over a period of time. Uncalled committed capital is the amount of capital that has not yet been drawn. For periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020, uncalled committed capital must not be included in total firm assets. Uncalled committed capital is excluded from total firm assets because it is not actively under management by the firm and there may be cases in which the committed capital is never called and will never be actively managed.

Although uncalled committed capital may not be included in total firm assets, a firm may wish to report firm-wide uncalled committed capital. If a firm wishes to present information about its uncalled committed capital, it may present uncalled committed capital as:
- a separate value, or
- the combination of total firm assets and firm-wide uncalled committed capital.

If the firm presents a combination of total firm assets and firm-wide uncalled committed capital, it must also present firm-wide uncalled committed capital for the same periods for which the combination of total firm assets and firm-wide uncalled committed capital is presented.

In certain regulatory filings, uncalled capital must be included in assets under management. Therefore, assets reported for regulatory purposes may differ from total firm assets.

For periods ending prior to 1 January 2020, firms may have included uncalled committed capital in total firm assets. If this is the case, firms are not required to restate total firm assets for periods ended prior to 1 January 2020, to remove uncalled committed capital from total firm assets.

### Overlay
An [[OVERLAY STRATEGY]] is defined as a strategy in which the management of a certain aspect of an investment strategy is carried out separately from the underlying portfolio. Overlay strategies are typically designed either to limit or maintain a specified risk exposure that is present in the underlying portfolio or to profit from a tactical view on the market by changing a portfolio’s specified risk exposure. For overlay strategies, overlay exposure is defined as the economic value for which a firm has investment management responsibility. Overlay exposure is the notional value of the overlay strategy being managed, the value of the underlying portfolios being overlaid, or a specified target exposure.

Firms must not include overlay exposure in total firm assets. However, firms may wish to present information about firm-wide overlay exposure. For overlay strategy composites, the firm is not required to present total firm assets and may instead choose to present total firm overlay exposure as of each annual period end. See Provision [[4.A.15]].

[[#Table 1]] provides examples of the type of assets that must be included in or excluded from total firm assets.

[[#Table 2]] provides guidance on how to distinguish among discretionary, non-discretionary, and advisory-only assets.

### Hedge fund structure
It is common for hedge funds to use a master-feeder structure, in which offshore and on-shore feeder funds invest in a centralized master fund. All portfolio investment activity occurs at the master fund level. Feeder funds own shares of the master fund. In a master-feeder structure, a firm may include in total firm assets either the master fund assets or the sum of the feeder fund assets.

For hedge funds registered offshore, the investment management function may be formally assigned to a third-party entity that is not actually performing the portfolio management function, and the firm may be named as having an advisory-only role. If the firm is actually performing the investment management function, however, these assets must be included in total firm assets.

### Determining Discretion for Wrap Fee Portfolios, including Unified Managed Accounts (UMAs)
Wrap fee programs are offered by brokerage firms (often referred to as wrap fee sponsors). These programs give investors access to numerous investment managers through one platform. Wrap fee sponsors charge a single “wrap” or “bundled” fee for several combined services (e.g., investment management, trading, custodial, and other administrative services). An investor selects the investment manager (i.e., the firm) whose strategy appears to best suit his or her needs, and the firm assumes responsibility for managing the investor’s wrap fee portfolio. The firm typically has full discretion to manage the wrap fee portfolio, and the wrap fee sponsor handles trade execution, custodial, and administrative services. For this type of wrap fee portfolio, wrap fee assets are discretionary and would be included in the firm’s total firm assets.

Model delivery programs are a type of wrap fee program in which the firm does not direct trades and provides only a model portfolio to the wrap fee sponsor. From the firm’s perspective, the service provided is characterized as investment advice because the firm has no control over whether the trades are executed as intended. Wrap fee assets included in model delivery programs would be considered advisory-only assets, because the firm is offering advice only and is not managing the account or directing trades. These assets would, therefore, not be included in total firm assets.

There is a type of wrap fee account called a Unified Managed Account (UMA) for which the determination of discretion, and whether or not the wrap fee portfolio should be included in total firm assets, are particularly challenging. A UMA program is similar to standard wrap fee programs in many ways. Investors have access to multiple managers through a single platform, and a single bundled fee is charged for a combination of services. The distinguishing feature of a UMA portfolio is the ability to combine multiple investment strategies into a single portfolio. A UMA portfolio may hold securities associated with multiple investment strategies and firms in one custodial or brokerage account.

Although firms generally dictate the investment strategy to be used for their designated portion of the assets in a UMA portfolio, their trading responsibilities can range from those of a standard wrap fee relationship to those of a model delivery program and often lie somewhere in between.

In a typical UMA program, the firm provides a model portfolio to the UMA platform and leaves the responsibility for executing trades to the wrap fee sponsor. In some UMA programs, the firm has discretionary authority to enter trades directly on the wrap fee sponsor’s platform, although such an arrangement is not typical. It should also be noted that most UMA programs include an overlay component, whereby another firm (often the wrap fee sponsor) oversees the overall composition of, and coordinates all activity in, the wrap fee portfolio. This arrangement includes cash management (how cash will be distributed among the various firms) and asset allocation decisions (rebalancing or changing the asset allocation to each firm).

The discretion that a firm has regarding a UMA portfolio depends on the characteristics of the particular UMA program. Some UMA programs may be fully discretionary, others may have shared discretion between the wrap fee sponsor and the firm, and some may be model delivery only. Discretion may also be influenced by the presence and responsibilities of an overlay manager who may have the authority to override the firm’s trading directives. Determining the level of discretion is important because it dictates whether the firm must include the UMA program assets in total firm assets. Because of the varying characteristics of different UMA programs, firms must evaluate each UMA program individually to determine whether its assets must be included in total firm assets.

The following are some factors to consider when determining whether to include UMA portfolios in total firm assets:
- The contract between the sponsor and the firm:
    - A contract that indicates that the firm has discretionary authority may suggest that the portfolios governed by the contract should be included in total firm assets. If this is the case, the level of control the firm actually has should be assessed.
    - In the case of “dual contracts,” in which the firm has contracts with both the sponsor and the client, a contract with the client that specifies that the firm has discretionary authority would support including the UMA portfolios in total firm assets.

- Trading authority:
    - The firm must have trading authority for the UMA portfolios to be included in total firm assets. Some possible scenarios include the following:
        - The firm submits trades to the wrap fee sponsor’s platform, but the wrap fee sponsor has final approval before execution. The firm may determine that it retains sufficient trading discretion for the wrap fee portfolios to be included in total firm assets.
        - The firm does not execute trades but has contractual assurance that the trades submitted will be executed in a timely manner and receives confirmation of execution. A firm could determine that these UMA portfolios should be included in total firm assets.
        - The wrap fee sponsor is responsible for all trading and can freely decide to deviate from the firm’s trading instructions. This is an advisory-only relationship, and the UMA assets must not be included in total firm assets.

- Authority at the portfolio level:
    - If the firm is making trading decisions on a portfolio-specific basis, this scenario indicates the firm has discretion. Inclusion of UMA assets in total firm assets is likely permitted.
    - If the firm does not have access to the data necessary to make decisions at the portfolio-specific level, the firm is likely to have limited authority over the portfolio and assets would not likely qualify for inclusion in total firm assets.

Because of the complexities that often exist in determining the level of discretion for a firm’s UMA assets, it is common for firms to exclude UMA assets from total firm assets and treat these assets as advisory-only assets. Firms must review all UMA programs to determine if the assets should be included in total firm assets and, if included, whether the portfolios should be included in a composite.

As described, firms have many decisions to make when establishing procedures for calculating total firm assets. Total firm assets reported for any given time period must be the same in all of the firm’s GIPS Reports.

### Table 1

|Type of Asset|Included in Total Firm Assets?|Reason|
|---|---|---|
|Discretionary assets for which the firm has unconditional authority to implement its strategy|Yes|Firm controls investment decisions.|
|Non-discretionary assets for which the firm has conditional authority to implement the strategy|Yes|Firm has limited control of investment decisions.|
|Non-fee-paying assets for which the firm has conditional or unconditional authority to implement the strategy|Yes|Firm has all or limited control of investment decisions.|
|Assets directed to a sub-advisor by the firm|Yes|Firm retains discretion over sub-advisor selection and has investment management responsibility.|
|Assets directed to a sub-advisor by the client|No|Firm does not retain discretion over sub-advisor selection and does not have investment management responsibility.|
|Assets within advisory-only client relationships|No|Firm has no control over implementation of investment decisions and no trading authority for the assets.|
|Uncalled committed capital|No|Firm is not actively managing uncalled committed capital and may never call the capital.|
|Overlay exposure|No|Firm is not managing the underlying assets.|

### Table 2
Scenarios Regarding Investment Management and Trading Authority

| Firm’s Investment Management and Trading Authority                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Type of Portfolio | Assets Included in or Excluded from Total Firm Assets |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| - Has authority to manage the portfolio according to a specific investment mandate<br>- Has full trading authority for the portfolio                                                                                                                         | Discretionary     | Included                                              |
| - Has authority to manage the portfolio<br>- Follows client-imposed restrictions on the management of the portfolio that prevents the portfolio from being representative of a specific investment mandate<br>- Has full trading authority for the portfolio | Non-discretionary | Included                                              |
| - Provides investment recommendations that must be approved by the client; the client may or may not accept the recommendations<br>- Has full authority to trade the portfolio if the client approves the recommendations                                    | Non-discretionary | Included                                              |
| - Provides investment recommendations that must be approved by the client<br>- Has no authority to trade the portfolio                                                                                                                                       | Advisory-only     | Excluded                                              |
| - Delivers a model portfolio<br>- Has no authority to trade the portfolio                                                                                                                                                                                    | Advisory-only     | Excluded                                              |

## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions