---
tags: []
---
Links: [[2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology]]
___
# 2.A.4
## Standard for Firms
COMPOSITE and POOLED FUND performance MUST be calculated using only actual assets managed by the FIRM.
## Discussion
Composite and pooled fund performance must be calculated using only actual assets managed by the firm. This performance must include any sub-advised assets for which the manager has discretion when selecting the sub-advisor.

Simulated, back tested, or model performance must not be included in any composites or pooled funds because such performance does not represent actual assets managed by the firm. Similarly, firms must not blend the history of two existing composites or pooled funds to create simulated performance for a “hybrid” or model composite or pooled fund and present it as a GIPS-compliant track record. For example, if the performance of actual portfolios in an equity composite is combined with the performance of actual portfolios in a fixed-income composite to show what the results might have been had the equity and fixed-income portfolios been combined, the results would be considered a simulated strategy. This “hybrid” or model composite may be presented as supplemental information only if all of the component parts are presented. Even though the returns for the equity and fixed-income composites are based on actual assets managed by the firm, the arbitrary method of combining them historically is subject to manipulation and does not represent real-time, actual asset allocation decisions. The performance results of this simulated strategy would, therefore, be considered hypothetical performance. This would also be true for combinations of different pooled funds or carve-outs used to create a simulated strategy.

Firms may present theoretical performance in GIPS Reports. Theoretical performance is not derived from actual assets invested in the strategy presented, and it includes model, back tested, hypothetical, simulated, indicative, ex ante, and forward-looking performance. Theoretical performance must be clearly labeled as supplemental information. Firms must not link historical theoretical performance with actual performance. For example, assume a firm manages equity portfolios and fixed-income portfolios. The firm wishes to create a track record for a balanced strategy invested 50% in equities and 50% in fixed income, rebalanced monthly, but it does not manage any portfolios in this balanced strategy. The firm uses the equity composite and the fixed-income composite as building blocks to create a 50/50 blended balanced strategy. The performance of the balanced strategy is theoretical and may be presented as supplemental information when all of the underlying building block composites are presented – in this case, the equity and fixed-income composites. It must be clear, however, that the performance for the balanced strategy is theoretical performance, and the appropriate disclosures about theoretical performance must be included.

A ported composite or pooled fund track record (a track record from a past or acquired firm that meets the portability requirements and can be used by the new or acquiring firm) is considered to be an extension of the new or acquiring firm. The assets of the ported track record must be included in composite assets or pooled fund assets. While a ported track record is not based on actual assets that had been managed at the new or acquiring firm, it must be based on actual assets at the past or acquired firm.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions