---
tags: []
---
Links: [[2.B.3]]
___
# 2.A.10
## Standard for Firms
[[ACCRUAL ACCOUNTING]] MUST be used for fixed-income securities and all other investments that earn interest income, except that interest income on cash and cash equivalents may be recognized on a cash basis. Any accrued income MUST be included in the beginning and ending PORTFOLIO values when performance is calculated.
## Discussion
Accrual accounting allows the recording of financial transactions as they come into existence rather than when they are paid or settled. When determining the valuation for a security that pays interest income, firms must include the income that would have been received at the end of the performance period had the security actually paid interest income earned during the performance period.

Accrued interest income must be included in both the beginning and ending portfolio values when performance is calculated. Interest should be accrued for a security in the portfolio using whatever method is customary and appropriate for that security.

Some instruments already include accrued income as part of the security’s market price. If income for these instruments is being accrued as part of the income recognition process, steps should be taken to ensure that the income is not double counted.

Income on cash and cash equivalents may be recognized on either an accrual or cash basis. Accrued income for cash and cash equivalents can be difficult to calculate. Unlike bonds with a known coupon rate, some short-term securities (e.g., overnight deposits) may not have a published interest rate. Firms must develop a methodology for accounting for short-term interest earnings and consistently apply the method selected. Firms could consider using the last actual known interest rate to accrue income for the most recent period. When the actual rate becomes known, an adjustment can then be made to allocate the actual income earned to the proper period. In this way, there is no systematic underestimation or overestimation of income, and income is also properly assigned to the period when earned. Cash-basis accounting (recording the income for short-term cash and cash equivalents as it is actually received) will tend to lag the suggested accrual method by recognizing income a month after it was earned. Either method is acceptable, however, and the method chosen must be used consistently.

An issue that may arise is how to calculate the performance of a bond, including the accrual of interest, when a bond goes into default. In this situation, the firm must recognize the loss when it occurred and the historical performance must not be recalculated. The accrual of interest must be included in the calculation method up until the point of the bond’s default. At that point, the calculation method would reflect the loss of accrued interest by adjusting the amount of accrued interest to zero. When and if the bond comes out of default and there is a reasonable expectation that the bond will commence paying interest, including back interest, the firm must begin accruing for such interest payments. The firm must not allocate such payments over periods when they were originally due but not paid.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions