---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: [[2.B.8]]
___
# 2.A.44
## Standard for Firms
REAL ESTATE investments that are not in a REAL ESTATE OPEN-END FUND MUST:
- Have an EXTERNAL VALUATION at least once every 12 months unless client agreements stipulate otherwise, in which case REAL ESTATE investments MUST have an EXTERNAL VALUATION at least once every 36 months or per the client agreement if the client agreement REQUIRES EXTERNAL VALUATIONS more frequently than every 36 months; or
- Be subject to an annual financial statement audit performed by an independent public accounting firm. The REAL ESTATE investments MUST be accounted for at FAIR VALUE, and the most recent audited financial statements available MUST contain an unmodified opinion issued by an independent public accounting firm.
## Discussion
This provision applies to all real estate investments that are not included in a real estate open-end fund, including real estate investments held in a multi-asset-class portfolio. This provision does not apply to real estate that may be held by pooled funds in which the firm invests.

Real estate investments include wholly owned or partially owned:
- investments in land, including products grown from the land (e.g., timber, crops),
- buildings under development, completed buildings, and other structures or improvements,
- equity-oriented debt (e.g., participating mortgage loans), and
- private interest in a property for which some portion of the return to the investor at the time of investment is related to the performance of the underlying real estate.

The following investments are not considered to be real estate investments and must follow the provisions of the GIPS standards that are not related to real estate:
- publicly traded real estate securities,
- mortgage-backed securities (MBS) and commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), and
- private debt investments, including commercial and residential loans in which the expected return is solely related to contractual interest rates without any participation in the economic performance of the underlying real estate.

In addition to the requirement to fair value quarterly, real estate investments that are not in a real estate open-end fund must have either:
- an external valuation: an assessment of value performed by an independent third party who is a professionally designated or certified commercial property valuer or appraiser. In markets where these professionals are not available, steps must be taken to ensure that only qualified independent property valuers or appraisers are used; or
- a financial statement audit: an audit of a segregated account’s or pooled fund’s financial statements that includes the real estate investments.

If a firm chooses an external valuation to satisfy this requirement, the real estate investments must have an external valuation at least every 12 months unless client agreements stipulate a different frequency for external valuations. For example, if a client agreement stipulates that external valuations will take place every 24 months, the real estate investments in the portfolio must have an external valuation completed at least once every 24 months. Regardless of the terms of the client agreement, each real estate investment must have an external valuation at least once every 36 months. Firms are encouraged to discuss the importance of external valuation with their clients, because valuation is the major element used in the return calculation and the external appraisal typically provides a point of reference for subsequent internal valuations performed by the firm. A firm may not always be successful in convincing its clients to move to more frequent external valuations because typically the client pays the cost of the appraisal. In many markets, however, the cost of obtaining external appraisals, including subsequent updates, are not significant because of technological advances as well as increased availability of market data. For additional information regarding an external valuation, please refer to Provision [[2.A.45]].

Firms that opt to have an external valuation are not required to obtain an external valuation for a property when the property is under a sales contract and the firm believes that the sale will be finalized.

Instead of an external valuation, a firm may choose to have a financial statement audit. The audit must be performed by an independent, qualified (i.e., professionally designated, certified, or licensed) accounting firm. The accounting firm chosen must be knowledgeable of the accounting rules and principles that apply to the firm’s financial statements, including all relevant laws and regulatory requirements. The financial statement audit may be at either the property level or portfolio level.

Although the most recent financial statement audit does not need to be through the most recent period for which the firm is claiming compliance with the GIPS standards, a financial statement audit must be performed annually. The real estate investments must be accounted for at fair value, and the most recent audited financial statements available must contain an unmodified opinion issued by the independent public accounting firm.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions