---
tags: []
---
Links: [[4. Composite Time-Weighted Return Report]], [[4.A.1]]
___
# 4.A.1.j
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST present in each [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]]:

- For [[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]] for which monthly COMPOSITE returns are available, the three-year annualized [[EX POST]] [[STANDARD DEVIATION]] (using monthly returns) of the COMPOSITE and the BENCHMARK as of each annual period end.
## Discussion
Evaluating past performance requires an understanding of the risks taken to achieve the results. Standard deviation is universally defined as a measure of the variability of returns. For composites for which monthly returns are available, the GIPS standards require the presentation of ex post standard deviation, often referred to as external standard deviation. Ex post standard deviation is a measure of the volatility of a strategy and benchmark over time, and it is intended to measure the risk of investing in the strategy. In contrast, internal standard deviation, discussed in Provision [[4.A.1.i]], is used to measure the dispersion of portfolio returns within a composite. For periods ending on or after 1 January 2011, firms must present, as of each annual period end, the three-year annualized ex post standard deviation using monthly returns for both the composite and the benchmark.

Standard deviation for both the composite and the benchmark must be calculated using 36 monthly returns. The same formula must be used to calculate standard deviation for the composite and the benchmark.

Some composites, such as those for private market investments, may not have monthly returns. For these composites, if the composite has at least three annual periods of performance, firms must disclose if the three-year annualized ex post standard deviation of the composite and/or benchmark is not presented because 36 monthly returns are not available. (See Provision [[4.C.36]].)

[[External Standard Deviation|Ex Post Standard Deviation (External) Calculation]]
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions