---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 4.A.7
## Standard for Firms
If the COMPOSITE includes non-fee-paying PORTFOLIOS, the FIRM MUST present the percentage of COMPOSITE assets represented by non-fee-paying PORTFOLIOS as of each annual period end when NET-OF-FEES returns are presented and are calculated using actual [[INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE|INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES]].
## Discussion
A firm may choose whether or not to include non-fee-paying portfolios in composites. This decision may be made on a composite-by-composite basis. If the firm has chosen to include a nonfee-paying portfolio in a composite, it must also include all other non-fee-paying discretionary portfolios meeting the definition of the composite. (See Provision [[3.A.4]] for further guidance on non-fee-paying portfolios.)

If a firm has included non-fee-paying portfolios in a composite and is presenting net-of-fees returns that are calculated using actual investment management fees, the firm is required to present the percentage of composite assets represented by non-fee-paying portfolios as of each annual period end. This may be done as a written disclosure, such as “This composite contained 15% non-fee-paying portfolios as of 31 December 2015, 17% as of 31 December 2016, 5% as of 31 December 2017, and 2% as of 31 December 2018.” Alternatively, the firm could add a column to its performance table titled “% composite assets composed of non-fee-paying portfolios” and list the percentage at the end of each annual period.

If the composite contains non-fee-paying portfolios but only gross-of-fees returns are presented, or if model fees are used to calculate composite net-of-fees returns, this information is not required to be presented. This guidance differs from the requirement in the 2010 edition of the GIPS standards, which required this information to be presented whenever a composite included non-fee-paying portfolios. Firms may apply this current guidance to all periods presented in GIPS Composite Reports.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions