---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: [[4.A.1]]
___
# 4.A.1.i
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST present in each [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]]:
- A measure of [[INTERNAL DISPERSION]] of individual PORTFOLIO annual returns for each annual period. If the COMPOSITE contains five or fewer PORTFOLIOS for the full year, a measure of [[INTERNAL DISPERSION]] is not REQUIRED.
## Discussion
Internal dispersion is a measure of the spread of the annual returns of individual portfolios within a composite. It allows prospective clients to determine how consistently the firm implemented its strategy across the portfolios in the composite for the full annual period. Internal dispersion measures include high-low, range, quartiles, interquartile range, or standard deviation (asset weighted or equal weighted) of portfolio returns as well as other statistical measures.

The GIPS standards do not require or recommend a specific measure to calculate internal dispersion. Instead, the firm is permitted to choose a measure for each composite and apply it consistently. The firm may change which internal dispersion measure is presented for a specific composite but should apply a measure consistently once it is adopted. A widely used internal dispersion measure is standard deviation. Firms are required to disclose which internal dispersion measure is presented.

Because the internal dispersion measure represents the spread of annual returns of individual portfolios within the composite for the full year, only the portfolios that have been managed for the full annual period are included in the internal dispersion calculation. Firms must identify the portfolios in the composite that have been included for the full annual period and calculate the annual return for each of those portfolios. Firms must use those annual returns to calculate the composite’s internal dispersion. The GIPS standards acknowledge that, by using only portfolios that have been included in the composite for the full year in the annual internal dispersion calculation, the internal dispersion number will not precisely correlate with the actual composite performance but will inform a prospective client of the dispersion of annual returns of those portfolios included in the composite for the year.

If the firm presents only gross-of-fees returns in the GIPS Composite Report, the firm should use gross-of-fees returns to calculate the internal dispersion measure. If the firm presents only net-of-fees returns in the GIPS Composite Report, the firm should use net-of-fees returns to calculate the internal dispersion measure. If the firm presents both gross-of-fees and net-of-fees returns, it is recommended that the firm use gross-of-fees returns to calculate the internal dispersion measure. (See Provision [[2.B.7]].) The firm must disclose which returns (gross-of-fees or net-of-fees) are used to calculate the internal dispersion measure. (See Provision [[4.C.44]].)

The internal dispersion of the individual portfolio returns must be presented for each annual period that is included in the GIPS Composite Report. In cases where there are five or fewer portfolios in a composite for the full annual period, the measure of internal dispersion is not required to be presented. Because firms must include information about the internal dispersion of individual portfolio returns, however, firms must indicate that the internal dispersion measure is not applicable or include other similar language. (See Provision [[4.C.40]].)

The following are explanations of commonly used measures of internal dispersion.
- [[INTERNAL DISPERSION#Equal-Weighted Standard Deviation|Equal-Weighted Standard Deviation]]
- [[INTERNAL DISPERSION#Asset-Weighted Standard Deviation|Asset-Weighted Standard Deviation]]
- [[INTERNAL DISPERSION#High-Low and Range|High-Low and Range]]
- [[INTERNAL DISPERSION#Interquartile Range|Interquartile Range]]
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions