---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: 
___
# 4.A.15
## Standard for Firms
For OVERLAY STRATEGY [[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]], the FIRM is not REQUIRED to present TOTAL FIRM ASSETS and may instead choose to present total FIRM OVERLAY EXPOSURE as of each annual period end.
## Discussion
Overlay exposure is the economic value of the assets underlying the overlay portfolios for which a firm has investment management responsibility. For periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020, overlay exposure must be calculated using one of the following approaches:
1. the notional value of the overlay strategy being managed,
2. the value of the underlying portfolios being overlaid, or
3. a specified target exposure as of the beginning of the period, which can either be defined as a target exposure or determined by a formula used to calculate the target exposure for each period.

Overlay strategies are often unfunded and are implemented by using derivatives, which can lead to the fair value of overlay portfolios being very small, negative, or even zero. Total firm assets for an overlay manager may therefore be quite small. The more meaningful information for an overlay manager would be total firm overlay exposure. Therefore, firms may choose not to present total firm assets because the amount may not be material or may not be a good indication of the volume of assets being managed by the firm. The firm may instead present total firm overlay exposure. However, total firm assets or total firm overlay exposure must be presented as of each annual period end. Firms may also choose to present both total firm assets and total firm overlay exposure.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions