---
tags: []
---
Links: [[4. Composite Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 4.A.10
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM chooses to present [[ADVISORY-ONLY ASSETS]] that reflect the COMPOSITE’S investment mandate, objective, or strategy, or a combination of COMPOSITE assets and [[ADVISORY-ONLY ASSETS]] that reflect the COMPOSITE’S investment mandate, objective, or strategy, the FIRM MUST:
- Present [[ADVISORY-ONLY ASSETS]] that reflect the COMPOSITE’S investment mandate, objective, or strategy for the same periods for which the combination of COMPOSITE assets and [[ADVISORY-ONLY ASSETS]] that reflect the COMPOSITE’S investment mandate, objective, or strategy is presented.
- Clearly label [[ADVISORY-ONLY ASSETS]] that reflect the COMPOSITE’S investment mandate, objective, or strategy as such.
- Clearly label the combination of COMPOSITE assets and [[ADVISORY-ONLY ASSETS]] that reflect the COMPOSITE’S investment mandate, objective, or strategy as such.
## Discussion
Advisory-only assets are assets for which the firm provides investment recommendations in line with the composite strategy but for which the firm has no control over implementation of investment decisions and no trading authority for the assets. Although composite advisory-only assets must not be included in the calculation of composite assets because the firm does not manage these assets, a firm may wish to provide information on composite advisory-only assets in addition to the required presentation of composite assets. The inclusion of information on composite advisory-only assets provides prospective clients additional information about a firm’s business model and the types of investment-related services that it provides. If a firm chooses to present information on composite advisory-only assets, it may present composite advisory-only assets as either:
- a separate value, or
- the combination of composite assets and composite advisory-only assets.

If a firm chooses to present composite advisory-only assets as a separate value, the information must be clearly labeled.

If a firm chooses to present the combination of composite assets and composite advisory-only assets, the firm must present composite advisory-only assets for the same periods for which the combination of composite assets and composite advisory-only assets is presented. Both composite advisory-only assets and the combination of composite assets and composite advisory-only assets must be clearly labeled as such.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions