---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: [[4.A.1]]
___
# 4.A.1.b
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST present in each GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT:
- COMPOSITE RETURNS for each annual period.
## Discussion
The GIPS standards require the presentation of annual composite returns. Firms must clearly label the annual presentation periods. Firms must define the annual reporting period on a composite-by-composite basis and apply it consistently. For purposes of comparability, best practice would be for a firm to report composite performance on a calendar year-end basis.

Within each GIPS Composite Report, the annual periods must be consistent. For example, a firm that reports a composite’s performance annually as of 30 June must consistently report data for years ending 30 June for that composite. The firm may decide in the future to change to a 31 December valuation and reporting date; however, the firm may not mix 30 June and 31 December valuation and reporting dates in the same GIPS Composite Report.

Although the GIPS standards require the presentation of annual returns, it is recommended that firms present more frequent returns, such as quarterly or monthly returns. (See Provision [[4.B.2.c]].) More frequent returns help prospective clients evaluate a composite’s track record.

Composite returns may be presented either gross-of-fees or net-of-fees, with one exception. Wrap fee composite returns must be presented net of the entire wrap fee. Firms may also choose to present both gross-of-fees and net-of fees composite returns in a GIPS Composite Report.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions