---
tags: []
---
Links: [[4. Composite Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 4.A.14
## Standard for Firms
For [[OVERLAY STRATEGY]] [[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]], the FIRM MUST present COMPOSITE [[OVERLAY EXPOSURE]] as of each annual period end. For those periods for which the FIRM presents COMPOSITE [[OVERLAY EXPOSURE]], the FIRM may choose not to present COMPOSITE assets.

Required for periods ending on or after 31 December 2020.
## Discussion
An overlay strategy is one in which the management of a certain aspect of an investment strategy is carried out separately from the underlying portfolio and it is offered as a separate strategy. If the overlay element is part of the overall portfolio, it may be carved out to represent the overlay strategy, but this is not required. Overlay strategies are typically designed to either limit or maintain a specified risk exposure that is present in the underlying portfolio or to profit from a tactical view on the market by changing a portfolio’s specified risk exposure. There are also overlay strategies that seek to add value against a specified target allocation or allocated capital at risk. Common types of overlay strategies include, but are not limited to, currency overlay, asset allocation overlay, interest rate overlay, and option overwrite overlay.

Overlay exposure is the economic value of the assets underlying the overlay portfolios for which a firm has investment management responsibility. For periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020, overlay exposure must be calculated using one of the following approaches: (1) the notional value of the overlay strategy being managed, (2) the value of the underlying portfolios being overlaid, or (3) a specified target exposure as of the beginning of the period, which can either be defined as a target exposure or determined by a formula used to calculate the target exposure for each period. The same method for calculating overlay exposure must be used for all portfolios within a composite. (See Provision [[2.A.6]].) For periods ending on or after 31 December 2020, it is required that firms present composite overlay exposure as of each annual period end in a GIPS Composite Report for overlay strategy composites.

Overlay strategies are often unfunded and are implemented by using derivatives, which can lead to the fair value of overlay portfolios being very small, negative, or even zero. For those periods for which the firm presents composite overlay exposure, the firm may choose not to present composite assets because the amount of composite assets may be immaterial or may not be a good indication of the volume of overlay assets being managed.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions