---
tags: []
---
Links: [[4. Composite Time-Weighted Return Report]], [[4.A.1]]
___
# 4.A.1.e
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST present in each [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]]:
- The TOTAL RETURN for the BENCHMARK for each annual period and for all other periods for which COMPOSITE returns are presented, unless the FIRM determines there is no appropriate BENCHMARK.
## Discussion
Benchmarks are important tools that aid in the planning, implementation, and evaluation of a portfolio’s investment policy. They also help facilitate discussions with prospective clients regarding the relationship between risk and return. As a result, firms are required to present a total return for the benchmark that reflects the composite’s investment mandate, objective, or strategy for each annual period. A firm may choose to present more than one benchmark in a GIPS Composite Report and, if it does so, it must include all required information for all benchmarks included in a GIPS Composite Report.

In addition to the required annual benchmark returns, firms must also present benchmark returns for the same periods for which composite returns are presented. For example, if the GIPS Composite Report includes quarterly composite returns, quarterly benchmark returns must also be included.

Because the GIPS standards require that the total return for the benchmark be presented, a price-only index would not satisfy the requirements of the GIPS standards. This scenario also applies to benchmarks that are components of a blended benchmark. A price-only benchmark may be presented in a GIPS Composite Report as supplemental information only if it is presented in addition to a total return benchmark. It must be labeled as a price-only benchmark, and there must be sufficient disclosures so that a prospective client understands the difference between the return of a price-only benchmark and the return of a total return benchmark. Firms must not present only a price-only benchmark even if no appropriate total return benchmark is available for a specific strategy. If a firm determines that no appropriate benchmark for the composite exists, it must not present a benchmark and must disclose why no benchmark is presented. (See Provision [[4.C.31]].)

Some benchmarks, such as commodity benchmarks, may not have income because the asset class does not create income, but they are still considered to be total return benchmarks. Target returns, such as an 8% hurdle rate, may also not have income, but this is not considered a price-only return.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions