---
tags: []
---
Links: [[4. Composite Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 4.A.6
## Standard for Firms
If the COMPOSITE includes [[CARVE-OUT|CARVE-OUTS]] with allocated cash, the FIRM MUST present the percentage of COMPOSITE assets represented by [[CARVE-OUT|CARVE-OUTS]] with allocated cash as of each annual period end.
## Discussion
A carve-out is a portion of a portfolio that is, by itself, representative of a distinct investment strategy, such as the domestic equity portion of a balanced portfolio. A carve-out may have its own dedicated cash balance, or cash may be allocated to the carve-out synthetically. With the issuance of the 2020 edition of the GIPS standards, firms are once again allowed to include carve-outs that include cash that has been allocated synthetically in composites. (Doing so was prohibited from 1 January 2010 through 31 December 2019.)

A composite that includes carve-outs with allocated cash may also include carve-outs with their own cash balance and standalone portfolios. (A standalone portfolio is a portfolio that is not a portion of a larger portfolio.) Because prospective clients should have sufficient information to understand the nature of the portfolios included in a composite, a firm must, therefore, present the percentage of composite assets represented by carve-outs with allocated cash as of each annual period end. Carve-outs with their own dedicated cash are not included in this percentage. This approach allows prospective clients to understand how much of the composite’s assets are represented by standalone portfolios and/or by carve-outs with their own cash and how much of the composite’s assets are represented by carve-outs with allocated cash. Provision 4.A.6 applies only to carve-outs with allocated cash. It does not apply to carve-outs with their own dedicated cash.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions