---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 4.A.16
## Standard for Firms
For WRAP FEE [[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]], when the FIRM presents performance to a WRAP FEE PROSPECTIVE CLIENT, the FIRM MUST present:
- The COMPOSITE that includes the performance of all actual WRAP FEE PORTFOLIOS, if any, managed according to the composite investment mandate, objective, or strategy, regardless of the WRAP FEE sponsor.
- COMPOSITE performance that is net of the entire WRAP FEE.
- The percentage of COMPOSITE assets represented by WRAP FEE PORTFOLIOS as of each annual period end.
## Discussion
A wrap fee is a type of bundled fee specific to a particular investment product. The wrap fee is charged by a wrap fee sponsor for investment management services and typically includes associated transaction costs that cannot be separately identified. Wrap fees can be all-inclusive, asset-based fees and may include a combination of investment management fees, transaction costs, custody fees, and/or administrative fees.

The GIPS standards require firms to define composites according to investment mandates, objectives, and/or strategies. To facilitate the comparability of performance results and prevent firms from cherry-picking their best-performing portfolios for presentation, firms must group all appropriate wrap fee portfolios in a composite managed according to a specific investment objective, mandate, or strategy (creating a style-defined composite) regardless of the wrap fee sponsor. If the firm has no actual wrap fee portfolios under management for the specified strategy, this style-defined composite will include only non-wrap fee portfolios managed to the specified strategy. (See Provision [[3.A.14]] for a more detailed discussion of the creation of wrap fee composites.)

The 2010 edition of the GIPS standards included the concept of a sponsor-specific composite that included only the wrap fee portfolios managed for a specific wrap fee sponsor in the composite strategy. The concept of a sponsor-specific wrap fee composite was removed in the 2020 edition of the GIPS standards. Sponsor-specific performance may still be used when creating materials for the use of a specific wrap fee sponsor, but such materials are considered to be client reporting and not a GIPS-compliant composite.

When presenting performance to a wrap fee prospective client, performance must be shown net of the entire wrap fee. This is required whether the composite includes wrap fee portfolios or nonwrap fee portfolios. This is because a wrap fee is a bundled fee that includes transaction costs that cannot be separately identified, and the prospective client must pay the total wrap fee. Firms may present gross-of-fees returns in addition to returns that are net of the entire wrap fee. A gross-of-fees return must reflect the deduction of transaction costs. To calculate a gross-of-fees return, firms may deduct the portion of the wrap fee that includes transaction costs, if this is known. Firms may also deduct estimated transaction costs, if actual transaction costs are not known and they have the ability to determine a reasonable estimate of transaction costs. (For the treatment of estimated transaction costs in bundled fee portfolios, please see Provision [[2.A.14]].) Pure gross-of-fees returns may be presented as supplemental information. A pure gross-of-fees return is one that is not reduced by any transaction costs incurred during the period. It is common, however, for wrap fee managers to present returns that are net of the entire wrap fee and pure gross-of-fees returns – and to not present a gross-of-fees return. See Provision [[2.A.48]] for information about calculating wrap fee portfolio returns.

It is also required that when a firm presents performance to a wrap fee prospective client, the GIPS Composite Report for the wrap fee composite must include the percentage of composite assets represented by wrap fee portfolios as of each annual period end. This allows prospective clients to understand how much of the composite’s assets is represented by actual wrap fee portfolios.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions