---
tags: []
---
Links: [[4. Composite Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 4.A.5
## Standard for Firms
If the COMPOSITE loses all of its member PORTFOLIOS, the COMPOSITE track record MUST end. If PORTFOLIOS are later added to the [[COMPOSITE]], the COMPOSITE track record MUST restart. The periods both before and after the break in track record MUST be presented, with the break in performance clearly shown. The FIRM MUST NOT [[LINK]] performance prior to the break in track record to the performance after the break in track record.
## Discussion
If all of the portfolios in a composite are either terminated or removed from the composite for some other reason, such as the application of a minimum account size or significant cash flow policy, the composite’s performance record would come to an end. After a period of time, portfolios may move above the minimum or new portfolios may be added to the composite, and the composite’s performance record would begin again. In such a case, there will be a break in the composite’s performance record. The composite’s prior performance history must not be linked to the ongoing composite performance results. A firm must not use the performance of a benchmark to link the performance track record from before and after the break in the composite’s track record. Any performance table in a GIPS Report must clearly indicate the break.

For firms that claim compliance for a period longer than 10 years, if the break in performance occurred more than 10 years ago, the performance prior to the break does not need to be presented. In all other cases, the firm must present the performance both prior to and after the performance break.

If a firm is also presenting a since-inception money-weighted return (SI-MWR) and there is a break in performance, the SI-MWR must not be calculated across the break. A current SI-MWR must be calculated using only the performance after the break. If the break in performance occurred less than 10 years ago, and it occurred during the period for which the firm claims compliance, an SI-MWR from the beginning of the track record up until the break must also be presented. The current SI-MWR and the SI-MWR representing performance prior to the break must not be linked and must be presented separately. The SI-MWRs before and after the break in performance must be clearly labeled so a prospective client or prospective investor can understand the periods reflected in the two returns.

Consider the following example for a firm that calculates performance on a monthly basis:

The firm has a composite that temporarily lost all of its portfolio members, resulting in a break in performance. The inception date for the composite is 1 January 2014, and there were four portfolios in the composite on 31 July 2015. During August 2015, two portfolios were liquidated and two fell below the minimum account size, leaving the composite with no portfolios. During April 2016, the two portfolios that had previously fallen below the composite minimum finally exceeded the minimum account size and were added back to the composite as of 1 May 2016, effectively reinstating the composite’s performance. During 2017, three new portfolios were added to the composite.

Because all of the portfolios in the composite were either terminated or fell below the minimum level and, according to the firm’s policies, were removed from the composite, the performance record of the composite comes to an end as of 31 July 2015. The performance record begins again on 1 May 2016 when two portfolios again met the minimum size criterion and were added back to the composite. When presenting the performance of this composite, the prior performance history of the composite through 31 July 2015 must be shown but must not be linked to the ongoing composite performance results beginning 1 May 2016.

For the purpose of performance presentation, as of 31 December 2017, the composite had an uninterrupted performance track record from 1 January 2014 to 31 July 2015, a performance break from 1 August 2015 to 30 April 2016, and an uninterrupted performance track record from 1 May 2016 to 31 December 2017.

Under the principles of fair representation and full disclosure, the GIPS standards require firms to handle such cases with the highest transparency. In this instance, the firm must present both periods of performance. The periods before and after the break must be presented separately. The GIPS Composite Report could present the information in this scenario as follows:

|                               |       Period Returns (%)       |           |                         |                                       | Assets as of Period End  <br>(USD millions) |            |
| :---------------------------: | :----------------------------: | :-------: | :---------------------: | :-----------------------------------: | :-----------------------------------------: | :--------: |
|            Period             | Composite  <br>(gross of fees) | Benchmark | Internal Dispersion (%) | Number of Portfolios as of Period End |                  Composite                  | Total Firm |
|       1 Jan-31 Dec 2017       |               X%               |    X%     |           X%            |                   5                   |                      X                      |     X      |
| 1 May-31 Dec 2016<sup>1</sup> |               X%               |    X%     |            –            |                   2                   |                      X                      |     X      |
| 1 Jan-31 Jul 2015<sup>2</sup> |               X%               |    X%     |            –            |                   –                   |                      –                      |     –      |
|       1 Jan-31 Dec 2014       |               X%               |    X%     |           X%            |                   4                   |                      X                      |     X      |
<sup>1</sup>  There were no portfolios in the composite from 1 August 2015 through 30 April 2016.
<sup>2</sup> There were no portfolios in the composite from 1 August 2015 through 30 April 2016.

It is important that the composite data is presented in a way that makes it clear that there were no portfolios in the composite from 1 August 2015 through 30 April 2016 and that the performance presented in the GIPS Composite Report is not linked across the break. The periods presented must be clearly labeled.

Although the firm may present a cumulative return for the period from 1 January 2014 through 31 July 2015, it must not link periods across performance breaks and present a cumulative and/or annualized return over such periods (e.g., from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2017). The same would apply to the presentation of any required or recommended risk measures based on cumulative periods (e.g., three-year annualized ex post standard deviation).

The firm may not choose to omit performance for the incomplete years (e.g., for 2015 and 2016 in the previous example) because they are not annual returns. Such an interpretation would not meet the goals of fair representation and full disclosure.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions