---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: 
___
# 4.A.13
## Standard for Firms
When the FIRM presents the performance of a COMPOSITE that includes [[CARVE-OUT|CARVE-OUTS]] with allocated cash and also has a COMPOSITE of standalone PORTFOLIOS managed according to the same strategy, the FIRM MUST present for the composite of standalone PORTFOLIOS:
- The COMPOSITE returns for each annual period for which the COMPOSITE of standalone PORTFOLIOS exists, and
- The COMPOSITE assets as of each annual period end for which the COMPOSITE of standalone PORTFOLIOS exists.

This information MUST be included in the [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]] of the COMPOSITE that includes [[CARVE-OUT|CARVE-OUTS]] with allocated cash.
## Discussion
A carve-out is a portion of a portfolio that is by itself representative of a distinct investment strategy, such as the domestic equity portion of a balanced portfolio. A carve-out may have its own dedicated cash balance, or cash may be allocated to the carve-out synthetically. If a firm has created carve-outs with allocated cash, the firm is likely, at some point, to obtain standalone portfolios managed in the same strategy as the carve-outs with allocated cash. (A standalone portfolio is a portfolio that is not a portion of a larger portfolio.) The firm must then create a separate composite that contains only the standalone portfolios. (See Provision [[3.A.18]].) If such a composite of standalone portfolios exists, the returns and assets of the composite that includes only standalone portfolios must be presented in the GIPS Composite Report for the composite that includes carve-outs with allocated cash. This will allow a prospective client to compare the returns and assets of the composite that includes carve-outs with allocated cash to the returns and assets of the composite that contains only standalone portfolios managed in the same strategy. If there are significant performance differences between the two composites, the prospective client has a chance to ask questions about the difference in returns between the two composites.

This provision applies only to carve-outs with allocated cash. It does not apply to carve-outs with their own cash.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions