---
tags: []
---
Links: [[4. Composite Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 4.A.8
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM chooses to present composite uncalled [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]] or a combination of COMPOSITE assets and COMPOSITE uncalled [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]], the FIRM MUST:
- Present COMPOSITE uncalled [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]] for the same periods for which the combination of COMPOSITE assets and COMPOSITE uncalled [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]] is presented.
- Clearly label COMPOSITE uncalled [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]] as such.
- Clearly label the combination of COMPOSITE assets and COMPOSITE uncalled [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]] as such.
## Discussion
Committed capital is defined as pledges of capital to an investment vehicle by investors (limited partners and the general partner) or the firm and is typically drawn down over a period of time. Uncalled committed capital is the amount of capital that has not yet been drawn. Because uncalled committed capital is not considered actual composite assets, composite uncalled committed capital must not be included in the calculation of composite assets as of 1 January 2020. This is consistent with the requirement to not include uncalled committed capital in total firm assets for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020. (See Provision [[2.A.1]].) A firm may report composite uncalled committed capital in addition to the required presentation of composite assets, if it wishes to do so. The inclusion of information on composite uncalled committed capital provides prospective clients with a more complete picture of the firm’s investments and the amount of capital that is currently committed to a future investment. If a firm chooses to present information on composite uncalled committed capital, it may present composite uncalled committed capital as either:
- a separate value, or
- the combination of composite assets and composite uncalled committed capital.

If a firm chooses to present composite uncalled committed capital as a separate value, the information must be clearly labeled.

If a firm chooses to present the combination of composite assets and composite uncalled committed capital, the firm must present composite uncalled committed capital for the same periods for which the combination of composite assets and composite uncalled committed capital is presented. Both composite uncalled committed capital and the combination of composite assets and composite uncalled committed capital must be clearly labeled as such.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions