---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 6.A.1.h
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST present in each [[GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT]]:
- For POOLED FUNDS for which monthly pooled fund returns are available, the three-year annualized [[EX POST]] STANDARD DEVIATION (using monthly returns) of the POOLED FUND and the BENCHMARK as of each annual period end.
## Discussion
Evaluating past performance requires an understanding of the risks taken to achieve the results. Standard deviation is universally defined as a measure of the variability of returns. For pooled funds for which monthly returns are available, the GIPS standards require the presentation of ex post standard deviation, often referred to as external standard deviation. Ex post standard deviation is a measure of the volatility of pooled fund and benchmark returns over time, and it is intended to measure the risk of investing in the pooled fund. For periods ending on or after 1 January 2011, firms must present, as of each annual period end, the three-year annualized ex post standard deviation using monthly returns for both the pooled fund and the benchmark.

Standard deviation for both the pooled fund and the benchmark must be calculated using 36 monthly returns. The same formula must be used to calculate standard deviations for the pooled fund and the benchmark.

Some pooled funds, such as those for private market investments, may not have monthly returns. For these pooled funds, if the pooled fund has at least three annual periods of performance, firms must disclose if the three-year annualized ex post standard deviation of the pooled fund and/or benchmark is not presented because 36 monthly returns are not available. (See Provision [[6.C.29]])

[[External Standard Deviation|Ex Post Standard Deviation (External) Calculation]]
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions