---
tags: []
---
Links: [[6. Pooled Fund Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 6.A.5
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST present the POOLED FUND [[EXPENSE RATIO]] appropriate to [[PROSPECTIVE INVESTOR|PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS]].
## Discussion
Firms must present the pooled fund expense ratio that is applicable to prospective investors for the specific pooled fund. The pooled fund expense ratio is the ratio of total pooled fund expenses to average net assets. The expense ratio should not reflect transaction costs.

The pooled fund expense ratio gives prospective investors important insight into the total fees and expenses paid by investors in the fund. For example, a pooled fund expense ratio of 2% indicates that an investor will pay $20 in expenses each year for every $1,000 invested, in addition to transaction costs. An expense ratio also helps investors compare expenses across funds, because even a small difference in fees can have a significant effect over time.

If the pooled fund has multiple share classes, the firm may present multiple expense ratios or may present only the expense ratio appropriate to the prospective investor. The firm may also use the highest expense ratio as the expense ratio that can be used for all prospective investors of the fund. Expense ratios must reflect any performance-based fees or carried interest, if accrued or charged to the pooled fund. Presenting a range of expense ratios (e.g., the expense ratio for all share classes ranges between 0.40% and 0.85%) would not satisfy this requirement.

Because expense ratios can change over time, firms must determine which expense ratio to present. A firm might choose to present the expense ratio as of the most recent annual period end, or the last known expense ratio. When the expense ratio has had a material change resulting from a change in assets or costs, the firm should present a more current expense ratio that reflects what a prospective investor is likely to pay at the current time.

Pooled fund expense ratios that are calculated for periods of less than one year must be annualized. Assume that a pooled fund starts on 1 April, and the firm calculates an expense ratio of 0.75% for the period from 1 April 2019 through 31 December 2019. The firm must present an annualized rate of 1.00%, representing a pooled fund expense ratio for the entire year, rather than the 0.75% that represents an expense ratio for only nine months. Presenting an annualized expense ratio facilitates the comparison of expense ratios across funds and firms. Firms may also present the non-annualized expense ratio but must clearly disclose or indicate that the expense ratio is not annualized.

This presentation requirement is not satisfied if the firm does not include the expense ratio in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report and instead makes reference to another document that includes the expense ratio, such as a fund prospectus. The expense ratio may be an exhibit attached to the GIPS Pooled Fund Report. The exhibit may be the pooled fund’s offering documents, if the offering documents include the appropriate expense ratio.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions