---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 6.A.11
## Standard for Firms
Any [[SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION]] included in the GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT:
- MUST relate directly to the POOLED FUND.
- MUST NOT contradict or conflict with the REQUIRED or RECOMMENDED information in the GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT.
- MUST be clearly labeled as [[SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION]].
## Discussion
Supplemental information is any performance-related information included as part of a GIPS Pooled Fund Report that supplements or enhances the requirements and/or recommendations of the GIPS standards. Performance-related information includes:
- information expressed in terms of investment return and risk, and
- other information and input data that directly relate to the calculation of investment return and risk (e.g., pooled fund holdings), as well as information derived from investment return and risk input data (e.g., performance contribution or attribution).

Supplemental information should provide users of the GIPS Pooled Fund Report with the proper context in which to understand the performance results. Common examples of supplemental information include the following:
- segment returns that do not include cash,
- money-weighted returns (MWRs) when the firm does not meet the tests for presenting only MWRs, and
- a price-only benchmark presented in addition to a total return benchmark.

Supplemental information must relate directly to the pooled fund and must not contradict or conflict with the required or recommended information in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report. Examples of information that relates directly to the pooled fund and would be considered supplemental information include segment returns (e.g., country or sector), performance attribution, and pooled fund holdings. An example of information that would conflict with the GIPS standards is the presentation of a price-only benchmark when no total return benchmark is presented.

The following is a more complete list of the principles that apply when supplemental information is presented. Supplemental information must:
- satisfy the spirit and principles of the GIPS standards – fair representation and full disclosure,
- comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding the calculation and presentation of performance,
- not include performance or performance-related information that is false or misleading,
- relate directly to the pooled fund and supplement or enhance the required or recommended information included in the pooled fund’s GIPS Pooled Fund Report,
- not contradict or conflict with the required or recommended information in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report,
- be clearly labeled as supplemental information, and
- not be shown with greater prominence than the required pooled fund information.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions