---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 6.A.1.b
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST present in each GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT:
- POOLED FUND returns for each annual period.
## Discussion
The GIPS standards require the presentation of annual pooled fund returns. Firms must clearly label the annual presentation periods. Firms must define the annual reporting period on a pooled fund-by-pooled fund basis and apply it consistently. For purposes of comparability, best practice would be for a firm to report pooled fund performance on a calendar year-end basis.

Within each GIPS Pooled Fund Report, the annual periods must be consistent. For example, a firm that reports a pooled fund’s performance annually as of 30 June must consistently report data for years ending 30 June for that pooled fund. The firm may decide in the future to change to a 31 December valuation and reporting date; however, the firm may not mix 30 June and 31 December valuation and reporting dates in the same GIPS Pooled Fund Report.

Although the GIPS standards require the presentation of annual returns, it is recommended that firms present more frequent returns, such as quarterly or monthly returns. (See Provision [[6.B.2.b]]) More frequent returns help prospective investors evaluate a pooled fund’s track record.

Firms may present either pooled fund gross returns or pooled fund net returns. Firms may also choose to present both pooled fund gross returns and pooled fund net returns in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions