---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 6.A.1.g
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST present in each [[GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT]]:
- TOTAL FIRM ASSETS as of each annual period end.

Required for periods ending on or after 31 December 2020. For periods ending prior to 31 December 2020, firms may present either total firm assets or pooled fund assets as a percentage of total firm assets.
## Discussion
For annual periods ending on or after 31 December 2020, the firm must present total firm assets as of each annual period end. For annual periods ending prior to this date, the firm must present either total firm assets or pooled fund assets as a percentage of total firm assets. Discretionary leverage must be deducted when calculating total firm assets. Discretionary leverage refers to loans taken at the discretion of the firm. In contrast, non-discretionary leverage refers to borrowings that are undertaken by the investor. For example, if the firm is managing a pooled fund that has $200 million in assets, and the firm chooses to borrow $50 million, the firm must use $200 million when calculating total firm assets, not $250 million. The inclusion of both pooled fund assets and total firm assets in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report will help a prospective investor understand the pooled fund size in relation to total firm assets.

Firms must be sure that assets are not double-counted because counting assets more than once would not fairly represent total firm assets.

See the discussion of Provision [[2.A.1]] for additional guidance on the calculation of total firm assets.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions