Tags:
Links: 
___
# 1.B.4
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM SHOULD adopt the broadest, most meaningful definition of the FIRM. The scope of this definition should include all geographical (country, regional, etc.) offices operating under the same brand name, regardless of the actual name of the individual investment management company.
## Discussion
It is important that firms remember the overarching principles of fair representation and full disclosure when defining the firm. Although there are specific requirements that must be met related to defining the firm (see Provision [[1.A.2]]), firms are recommended to define the firm as broadly as possible, encompassing all of the relevant locations and departments, so that the prospective client or prospective investor is given enough information about the investment strategies being managed and the firm as a whole to make an informed decision about whether or not to invest with the firm. It is recommended that the definition of the firm include all geographical offices operating under the same brand name, regardless of the actual name of the individual investment management company.

Examples of how a firm could be defined as broadly as possible include:
- all offices operating under the same brand name (e.g., XYZ Asset Management),
- other names resulting from mergers, acquisitions, and/or trading under a different name for branding purposes,
- financial service holding companies defined as one global firm with multiple brands, several legal entities, multiple offices, investment teams, and investment strategies,
- an investment management firm with one brand but multiple strategies and investment teams, and
- all offices trading under a globally recognizable trading name with regional/country-specific additions (e.g., XYZ Asset Management Asia).

The appropriate definition of the firm will depend on the firm’s actual circumstances. In some cases, it may be appropriate to define the firm based on geographic location or to have different firms that use the same brand name if that is how the firm is held out to prospective clients and prospective investors.

Investment management firms in most countries must register with one or more governmental agencies or regulators. The GIPS standards recognize a regulatory registration as a possible definition of a firm for purposes of compliance but also require firms to consider the manner in which they are holding themselves out to the public when determining the firm definition.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions