Tags:
Links: 
___
# 1.B.7
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM is selling participation in a new [[LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND]] that does not yet have a track record, the FIRM SHOULD present the most appropriate track record for the new [[LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND]], if available. The most appropriate track record is a [[GIPS REPORT]] for a [[COMPOSITE]] or another [[POOLED FUND]] that is managed according to the same or similar strategy as the new [[LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND]].
## Discussion
Participation in a new limited distribution pooled fund (LDPF) is often being marketed by a firm before the pooled fund has a track record. If an LDPF has no performance history, there is no requirement to provide a GIPS Report. In such cases, however, the firm should present the most appropriate track record for the new fund if an appropriate track record is available. The most appropriate track record would be a GIPS Report for a composite or another pooled fund that the firm manages according to the same or similar strategy as the new LDPF that has not yet started. If an appropriate track record is presented to prospective investors, sufficient information should be provided so that pooled fund prospective investors understand the track record presented. The firm should consider whether any adjustments to net returns should be made to align fees used to calculate net returns with the fees that will be charged by the new LDPF. As is always the case, the information presented must adhere to the principles of fair representation and full disclosure.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions