Links: [[1. Fundamentals of Compliance]]
___
# 1.B.2
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM SHOULD update [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT|GIPS COMPOSITE REPORTS]] and [[GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT|GIPS POOLED FUND REPORTS]] quarterly.
## Discussion
GIPS Composite Reports and GIPS Pooled Fund Reports contain important information, but the value and relevance of that information are affected by the timeliness with which the GIPS Report is updated. A GIPS Report that includes returns that are significantly out of date is not helpful to prospective clients or prospective investors. For this reason, it is required that firms update GIPS Composite Reports and GIPS Pooled Fund Reports within 12 months of the end of the most recent annual period, even if a verification for the firm, or a performance examination of a composite or pooled fund, is not yet completed. In the interest of fair representation and full disclosure, however, it is recommended that GIPS Composite Reports and GIPS Pooled Fund Reports be updated quarterly to provide more timely information to prospective clients and prospective investors.

When updating a GIPS Report that presents time-weighted returns to include monthly, quarterly, or year-to-date returns, firms are required to update only the following information:
- composite or pooled fund returns,
- benchmark returns, and
- significant events that would help a prospective client or prospective investor understand the GIPS Report.

When performance in a GIPS Report that presents money-weighted returns is updated more frequently than the required annual update, firms are required to update only the following information:
- the composite or pooled fund return,
- the benchmark return,
- the required multiples, such as the paid-in capital (PIC) multiple, the investment multiple ([[INVESTMENT MULTIPLE (TVPI)|TVPI]]), and the unrealized multiple (RVPI), as of the most recent quarter end or month end, and
- significant events that would help a prospective client or prospective investor understand the GIPS Report.

Firms may also update other information in the GIPS Report, such as total firm assets and the number of portfolios in the composite, but are not required to do so.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions