---
tags: []
---
Links: [[1. Fundamentals of Compliance]]
___
# 1.A.36
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST choose if it will present [[TIME-WEIGHTED RETURN|TIME-WEIGHTED RETURNS]], [[MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURN|MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURNS]], or both for each COMPOSITE or POOLED FUND, and it MUST consistently present the selected returns for each COMPOSITE or POOLED FUND.
## Discussion
The firm must choose whether to present time-weighted returns (TWRs) or money-weighted returns (MWRs) for a composite or pooled fund, keeping in mind that MWRs may only be presented in the circumstances specified in Provision [[1.A.35]]. If either TWRs or MWRs are permitted under the GIPS standards, the firm may choose to present TWRs, MWRs, or both TWRs and MWRs. If the firm does not meet the criteria for presenting MWRs for a specific composite or pooled fund, the firm must present TWRs and may present MWRs but only as supplemental information. Once a firm has chosen which return(s) it will present, the firm must consistently present the return(s) selected for each composite or pooled fund.

To “consistently present” the selected returns means that, once a firm has chosen the type of permitted return to present (TWR, MWR, or both), it must continue to present the selected return(s) unless there is a compelling reason to change the type of return presented. Doing so is important for consistency in the presentation of a firm’s track record and to prevent the changing of the type of return presented in order to present more-favorable returns.

> [!WARNING] The following are some of the appropriate reasons for a firm to change the type of return presented:
> 
> - There is a change in the GIPS standards with respect to the criteria for the use of a TWR or MWR.
> - There are new legal or regulatory requirements that require a change in the type of return presented.
> - The firm decides to present both TWRs and MWRs in GIPS Reports, rather than the one type of return that had been presented, in order to provide a more comprehensive view of performance.
> - A review of the firm’s strategy leads to a changed view regarding the type of return that most accurately reflects the strategy. (This should be a very infrequent occurrence).
> - There is a change in the strategy’s key features that would require or permit a change in the type of return that is presented. (For example, a firm may change the structure of a fund from a closed-end fund to an open-end fund, or there may be a change in the investments used for the strategy).

Once a change in the type of return(s) presented is made, however, the newly selected return(s) type must be presented unless there is a compelling reason to make another change.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions