---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 1.A.30
## Standard for Firms
For MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURNS presented in GIPS REPORTS, the FIRM MUST NOT present non-GIPS-compliant performance for periods ending on or after the MINIMUM EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE DATE. The FIRM may present non-GIPS-compliant performance in GIPS REPORTS for periods ending prior to the MINIMUM EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE DATE.
## Discussion
The minimum effective compliance date is the date after which only GIPS-compliant performance may be presented by a firm in GIPS Reports. For money-weighted returns, the firm must not present non-GIPS-compliant performance for periods ending on or after the minimum effective compliance date. Most composites and pooled funds have a minimum effective compliance date of 1 January 2000. For these composites and pooled funds, performance for periods ending on or after 1 January 2000 that does not comply with the GIPS standards must not be presented as part of a GIPS Report. Real estate and private equity composites and pooled funds have a minimum effective compliance date of 1 January 2006. For these composites and pooled funds, performance for periods ending on or after 1 January 2006 that does not comply with the GIPS standards must not be presented in a GIPS Report. For any performance presented for periods ended prior to the minimum effective compliance date that does not comply with the GIPS standards in a GIPS Report, firms must disclose the periods of non-compliance.

The measurement period for a since-inception money-weighted return (MWR) is the period from the inception date of the composite or pooled fund through the end of the period that is being reported. The beginning date remains constant and the ending date is extended as the measurement period becomes longer. The period-end date will determine what is a compliant time period for GIPS Report purposes.

The inception date is always incorporated into a since-inception MWR in contrast to a time-weighted return (TWR), which does not necessarily incorporate since-inception results. It could be argued that the since-inception basis of MWR reporting would mean that any period of historical non-compliance could make the current period also non-compliant because the current calculation includes inputs from periods for which the firm did not claim compliance with the GIPS standards. This is not the case, however – a firm may present returns that use inputs (i.e., cash flows) from periods for which the firm did not claim compliance as long as the inputs meet any applicable requirements of the GIPS standards. Daily external cash flows must be used within any GIPS-compliant since-inception MWR calculation as of 1 January 2020. Prior to 1 January 2020, quarterly or more-frequent external cash flows must be used.

Outside of a GIPS Report, non-compliant performance for periods ending on or after the minimum effective compliance date may be presented if the non-compliant performance is requested by a prospective client or prospective investor. The non-compliant performance may be presented in a one-on-one presentation that is created for and will be used only by the prospective client or prospective investor.

The non-compliant performance may also be presented outside of a GIPS Report to other prospective clients or prospective investors if the following conditions are met:
- The non-compliant performance is presented in a one-on-one presentation that includes the delivery of a GIPS Report, if the corresponding GIPS Report has not been previously delivered to the prospective client or prospective investor;
- The non-compliant performance is presented only to prospective clients or prospective investors who the firm believes are sufficiently knowledgeable about investments and can understand the relevance and limitations of the track record being presented;
- There are sufficient disclosures regarding the non-compliant performance so that prospective clients and prospective investors understand that this is not a GIPS-compliant track record. Disclosure, however, does not necessarily prevent information from being false or misleading;
- The non-compliant performance is not presented if a GIPS-compliant track record is requested; and
- The non-compliant performance is not included in a consultant database.

The purpose of this requirement is to ensure that all performance presented for periods ending after the minimum effective compliance date complies with the GIPS standards so that prospective clients and prospective investors can more easily compare performance results between firms.

Firms are reminded that they must comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding the calculation and presentation of performance and they must not present performance or performance-related information that is false or misleading.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions