---
tags: []
---
Links: [[1. Fundamentals of Compliance]]
___
# 1.A.19
## Standard for Firms
A POOLED FUND BENCHMARK used in a [[GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT]] MUST reflect the investment mandate, objective, or strategy of the POOLED FUND. The FIRM MUST NOT use a price-only BENCHMARK in a [[GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT]].
## Discussion
Benchmarks are important tools that aid in the planning, implementation, and evaluation of a pooled fund’s investment policy. They also help facilitate discussions with pooled fund prospective investors regarding the relationship between risk and return. As a result, firms are required to present the total return for a benchmark that reflects the pooled fund’s investment mandate, objective, or strategy in all GIPS Pooled Fund Reports.

GIPS Pooled Fund Reports that include time-weighted returns must include pooled fund returns for each annual period. GIPS Pooled Fund Reports that include money-weighted returns must include the pooled fund return for the period from inception through the most recent annual period end. Firms must present benchmark returns for these required periods and for any additional periods for which pooled fund returns are presented. For example, if a GIPS Pooled Fund Report includes quarterly pooled fund returns, quarterly benchmark returns must also be included.

The benchmark that appears in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report may differ from the benchmark that is required to be presented in the pooled fund’s regulatory materials or that is presented in other fund marketing materials. A firm may also present more than one benchmark in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report. The firm must determine the appropriate benchmark or benchmarks for each pooled fund.

There may be situations in which there is no appropriate benchmark for a pooled fund – that is, no benchmark exists that reflects the pooled fund’s investment mandate, objective, or strategy.

In such cases, the firm must not present a benchmark in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report and must disclose why no benchmark is presented. Outside of a GIPS Pooled Fund Report, a firm may present a benchmark that is not reflective of the pooled fund’s strategy. There must, however, be a valid reason for doing so. For example, laws or regulations sometimes require the use of what would be considered an inappropriate benchmark for a broad distribution pooled fund. As another example, if a firm believes that no appropriate benchmark exists, it might want to present a market index to represent the opportunity cost of investing in the pooled fund. If such a benchmark is used outside of a GIPS Pooled Fund Report, there must be sufficient disclosure so that a pooled fund prospective investor understands the nature of the benchmark and why it is being presented. Disclosure, however, does not necessarily prevent information from being false or misleading. A firm must not select a benchmark for the purpose of providing a favorable comparison to the performance of the pooled fund. To do so would be misleading, regardless of the disclosures accompanying the benchmark.

Because the GIPS standards require that the total return for the benchmark be presented, a price-only index will not satisfy the requirements of the GIPS standards. This also applies to benchmarks that are components of a blended benchmark. A blended benchmark is the combination of two or more indexes, such as a benchmark that consists of 50% of the ABC Index and 50% of the DEF Index. In this example, both the ABC Index and the DEF Index must be total return benchmarks, not price-only benchmarks. However, when there is an appropriate total return benchmark, a price-only benchmark may be presented in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report as supplemental information, as well as outside of a GIPS Pooled Fund Report, if the price-only benchmark is accompanied by a total return benchmark. If a price-only benchmark is included in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report as supplemental information, or is presented outside of a GIPS Pooled Fund Report, it must be identified as a price-only benchmark, and there must be sufficient disclosures so that a prospective investor understands the difference between the return of a price-only benchmark and the return of a total return benchmark. If no appropriate total return benchmark for the pooled fund’s strategy exists, the firm may not present a price-only benchmark in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report but may present it outside of a GIPS Pooled Fund Report. In such cases, “price only” must be included in the label or the name of the benchmark. As in all cases where a price-only benchmark is presented, there must be sufficient disclosures so that a prospective investor understands the difference between the return of a price-only benchmark and the return of a total return benchmark.

Some benchmarks may appear to be price-only benchmarks because they do not include income, but they should be considered total return benchmarks. These include the following:
- private market equivalent (PME) benchmarks,
- commodity benchmarks, and similar benchmarks, that do not have income due to the nature of the benchmark constituents, and
- target returns, such as an 8% hurdle rate.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions