---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 1.A.27
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST NOT [[LINK]] actual performance with historical THEORETICAL PERFORMANCE.
## Discussion
Theoretical performance is a broad term encompassing different types of performance that is not derived from a composite, portfolio, or pooled fund with actual assets invested in the strategy or fund presented (“non-actual” performance). There are several names for this type of information: model, back-tested, hypothetical, simulated, indicative, and forward-looking, among others. Firms may present theoretical performance but, within a GIPS Report, historical theoretical performance must not be linked to the performance of a composite that includes actual portfolios or to the performance of an actual pooled fund. As an example, a firm that has a composite with a one-year track record must not extend the history to five years using back-tested performance for four years linked to the actual one-year performance. As a second example, a composite that lost all its constituent portfolios for two months cannot continue the track record without interruption by using the benchmark return for the missing months of performance to simulate performance. Historical composite or pooled fund returns must represent performance of only actual discretionary assets managed by the firm.

Theoretical performance, such as simulated or model performance, may be included in a GIPS Report. If historical theoretical performance is included in a GIPS Report, it must not be linked to actual performance and must be clearly labeled as supplemental information. Theoretical performance should be provided only to clients and investors or prospective clients and prospective investors who are sufficiently experienced and knowledgeable to assess the relevance and limitations of theoretical performance.

Theoretical performance that is not linked to actual performance may be presented when responding to a request for proposal (RFP) or when providing information in a database for a strategy a firm does not currently manage, but it must be clearly identified as model or hypothetical information.

Outside of a GIPS Report, firms may present actual performance linked to historical theoretical performance if asked to do so by a prospective client or prospective investor. The linked information may be presented in a one-on-one presentation that is created for and will be used only by the prospective client or prospective investor.

The linked information may also be presented outside of a GIPS Report in marketing materials provided to other prospective clients or prospective investors if the following conditions are met:
- The linked information is presented in a one-on-one presentation that includes the delivery of a GIPS Report, if the corresponding GIPS Report has not been previously delivered to the prospective client or prospective investor;
- The linked information is presented only to prospective clients or prospective investors who the firm believes are sufficiently knowledgeable about investments and can understand the relevance and limitations of the track record being presented;
- There are sufficient disclosures regarding the linked information so that prospective clients and prospective investors understand that this is not a GIPS-compliant track record. Disclosure, however, does not necessarily prevent information from being false or misleading;
- The linked information is not presented if a GIPS-compliant track record is requested; and
- The linked information is not included in a consultant database.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions