---
tags: []
---
Links: [[1. Fundamentals of Compliance]]
___
# 1.A.35
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST present TIME-WEIGHTED RETURNS unless certain criteria are met, in which case the FIRM may present [[MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURN|MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURNS]]. The FIRM may present [[MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURN|MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURNS]] only if the firm has control over the [[EXTERNAL CASH FLOW|EXTERNAL CASH FLOWS]] into the PORTFOLIOS in the COMPOSITE or POOLED FUND, and the portfolios in the composite have or the pooled fund has at least one of the following characteristics:
- [[CLOSED-END]]
- [[FIXED LIFE]]
- [[FIXED COMMITMENT]]
- [[ILLIQUID INVESTMENTS]] as a significant part of the investment strategy.
## Discussion
The GIPS standards require firms to present time-weighted returns (TWRs) unless very specific circumstances are met. This requirement is because external cash flows are generally client driven and investment managers should not be rewarded or penalized for investment decisions outside of their control. In addition, by removing the effects of external cash flows, a TWR best reflects the firm’s ability to manage the portfolio according to a specified investment mandate, objective, or strategy. This allows prospective clients and prospective investors the best opportunity to fairly evaluate the firm’s past performance and to facilitate comparison between investment management firms.

There are some investment strategies and products, however, including many private market investment strategies for which the timing and the size of cash flows are controlled by the investment manager and are part of the investment decision process. In such cases, it is appropriate that performance reflects the results of the investment manager’s cash flow timing decisions. Therefore, a firm may present composite or pooled fund money-weighted returns (MWRs) instead of, or in addition to, TWRs if the firm has control over the external cash flows into and out of the portfolios in the composite or the pooled fund, and the portfolios in the composite have or the pooled fund has at least one of the following characteristics:
- closed-end
- fixed life
- fixed commitment
- illiquid investments as a significant part of the investment strategy.

Illiquid investments would be considered a significant part of the investment strategy if the illiquidity is a key feature of the investment strategy and is likely to have a material effect on returns.

If these conditions are met for a specific composite or pooled fund, the firm may choose to present only MWRs in the respective GIPS Report. If these conditions are not met for a composite or pooled fund, the firm must present TWRs in the respective GIPS Report. When a firm does not meet the tests to present only MWRs for a composite or pooled fund, it may present MWRs in addition to TWRs in the respective GIPS Report as supplemental information.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions