---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 1.A.16
## Standard for Firms
When providing [[GIPS REPORT|GIPS REPORTS]] to PROSPECTIVE CLIENTS and PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS, the FIRM MUST update these reports to include information through the most recent annual period end within 12 months of that annual period end.
## Discussion
GIPS Composite Reports and GIPS Pooled Fund Reports are designed to provide information to prospective clients or prospective investors that will help them understand the investment mandate, characteristics, and performance of a specific composite or pooled fund managed by the firm. Although a GIPS Report contains important information, the value and relevance of that information are affected by the timeliness with which the GIPS Report is updated. A GIPS Report that presents returns that are significantly out of date is not helpful to prospective clients or prospective investors. It is therefore required that any GIPS Report that is provided to a prospective client or prospective investor must be updated within 12 months of the end of the most recent annual period end. As an example, suppose that a firm presents calendar-year returns in GIPS Reports. GIPS Reports with information through 31 December 2020 must be available no later than 31 December 2021. The lack of the completion of an annual verification is not a valid reason for delaying the updating of a GIPS Report.

If a specific composite or pooled fund is not being marketed, and as a result there are no prospective clients or prospective investors for the composite or pooled fund, the firm is not required to update the respective GIPS Report. As stated in Provision [[1.A.24]], however, a firm must provide a GIPS Report for any composite that is on the firm’s list of composite descriptions, and any pooled fund that is on the firm’s list of limited distribution pooled fund (LDPF) descriptions, to a prospective client or prospective investor upon request. While a firm is not required to annually update a GIPS Report when there are no prospective clients or prospective investors, the firm must be able to provide an updated GIPS Report, within a reasonable period of time, to a prospective client or prospective investor for the respective composite or LDPF.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions