---
tags: []
---
Links: [[1. Fundamentals of Compliance]]
___
# 1.A.20
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST correct [[MATERIAL ERROR|MATERIAL ERRORS]] in [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT|GIPS COMPOSITE REPORTS]] and MUST:
- Provide the corrected [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]] to the current verifier.
- Provide the corrected [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]] to current clients, current investors, and any former verifiers that received the [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]] that had the [[MATERIAL ERROR]]
- Make every reasonable effort to provide the corrected [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]] to all CURRENT PROSPECTIVE CLIENTS and PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS that received the [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]] that had the [[MATERIAL ERROR]]. The FIRM is not REQUIRED to provide a corrected [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]] to former clients, former investors, former PROSPECTIVE CLIENTS, or former PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS.
## Discussion
Firms claiming compliance with the GIPS standards are likely to face situations in which errors are discovered that must be specifically addressed. Even with the tightest of controls, errors will occur. An error, which can be qualitative or quantitative, is any component of a GIPS Composite Report that is missing or inaccurate. Errors in GIPS Composite Reports can result from, but are not limited to, incorrect, incomplete, or missing:
- composite returns or assets,
- total firm assets,
- benchmark returns,
- number of portfolios in a composite,
- three-year annualized ex post standard deviation, and
- disclosures.

Firms must establish error correction policies and procedures, and materiality must be defined in the error correction policies.

If a GIPS Composite Report contains a material error, the GIPS Composite Report must be corrected and the corrected GIPS Composite Report that includes a disclosure of the error must be provided to the current verifier and to all current clients, current investors, and any former verifiers that received the GIPS Composite Report with the material error. Former verifiers that received the GIPS Composite Report with the material error must receive the corrected GIPS Composite Report with a disclosure of the error in case the error affects a previously issued verification report or performance examination report. The firm must also make every reasonable effort to provide the corrected GIPS Composite Report to all current prospective clients and prospective investors that received the GIPS Composite Report with the material error. The firm is not required to provide the corrected GIPS Composite Report to former prospective clients or former prospective investors that received the GIPS Composite Report that contained the material error.

The firm generally has three options for dealing with non-material errors in GIPS Composite Reports:
1. _Take no action._  
    - The error is deemed immaterial and does not require a change to any data or disclosures in the GIPS Composite Report.
2. _Correct the GIPS Composite Report with no disclosure of the change and no distribution of the corrected GIPS Composite Report._  
    - The correction of the error results in a change to one or more items in the GIPS Composite Report, but these changes are deemed not material and therefore do not require disclosure of the change or distribution of the corrected GIPS Composite Report.
3. _Correct the GIPS Composite Report with disclosure of the change and no distribution of the corrected GIPS Composite Report._  
    - The correction of the error results in a change to one or more items in the GIPS Composite Report, but these changes are deemed not material. The firm does not distribute the corrected GIPS Composite Report but, according to the firm’s pre-established error correction policies and procedures, the error does require disclosure in the corrected GIPS Composite Report.

A firm must decide what criteria it will use to determine materiality. The following is a definition of materiality that firms might find useful as a starting point:
- An error (or item) is material if the magnitude of the omission or misstatement of performance information, in light of surrounding circumstances, makes it probable that the judgment of a reasonable person relying on the information would have been changed by the omission or misstatement.

When determining materiality, a firm may consider the following factors:
- magnitude of the error, in absolute and relative terms,
- whether the error is material relative to the benchmark,
- whether returns are overstated or understated,
- significance of the missing or incorrect disclosures,
- whether the error affects returns over time or is a timing issue,
- period(s) affected by the error,
- if these policies will be applied firm-wide or on a composite-specific or pooled fund-specific basis, and
- whether the firm has any legal or regulatory obligations related to error correction.

The size and effect of the error may vary for different asset types (e.g., equities, fixed income, emerging market equities), reporting periods (e.g., monthly, quarterly, or annual returns), and by time period (e.g., prior to a specific date, more than five years ago).

It is important to remember that the omission of required information is considered an error, as well as a misstatement in the information presented. The GIPS Composite Report must be corrected to include the required information, and the firm must apply its error correction policies to determine if the error is material.

Firms must establish and document error correction policies and procedures and must implement them consistently. A firm should strive to create an unambiguous process that includes specific steps to discover errors.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions