---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 1.A.22
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST maintain:
- A complete list of [[COMPOSITE DESCRIPTION|COMPOSITE DESCRIPTIONS]]. The FIRM MUST include terminated [[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]] on this list for at least five years after the [[COMPOSITE TERMINATION DATE]].
- A complete list of POOLED FUND DESCRIPTIONS for [[LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND|LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUNDS]]. The FIRM is not REQUIRED to include terminated [[LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND|LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUNDS]] on this list.
- A complete list of [[BROAD DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND|BROAD DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUNDS]]. The FIRM is not REQUIRED to include terminated [[BROAD DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND|BROAD DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUNDS]] on this list.
## Discussion
Firms must maintain a complete list of composite descriptions and limited distribution pooled fund (LDPF) descriptions. It must also maintain a list, without descriptions, of broad distribution pooled funds (BDPFs). Firms must include terminated composites on the firm’s list of composite descriptions for at least five years after the composite termination date. One reason for this requirement is that a terminated composite may be re-started so a list of current and terminated composites may provide a more complete picture of a firm’s capabilities.

In contrast, it is not required that a firm’s list of LDPF descriptions or its list of BDPFs include terminated pooled funds. Once a pooled fund is closed, it is no longer available for investment and typically would not be restarted.

A firm that manages BDPFs is required to maintain a complete list of BDPFs. The list can be at the fund level; it does not have to be at the share class level. Firms are not required to maintain a complete list of BDPF descriptions. Instead, a firm must provide a description of any BDPF to any BDPF prospective investor upon request.

If a firm is the sub-advisor for a pooled fund that is marketed or distributed by another firm as either an LDPF or a BDPF, the firm acting as sub-advisor must treat the sub-advised pooled fund as a segregated account. It will not appear on the firm’s list of LDPFs or BDPFs. Only if the firm offers participation in the pooled fund, either directly or through an agent, will the pooled fund be considered either a BDPF or LDPF.

Prior to the 2020 edition of the GIPS standards, firms were required to include all portfolios, both segregated accounts and pooled funds, in a composite. When a firm adopts the 2020 edition of the GIPS standards, it will no longer be required to include pooled funds in a composite unless the pooled fund is managed in a strategy that is managed for or offered as a segregated account, or the pooled fund meets a composite definition. Once a firm adopts the 2020 GIPS standards, any composites containing only one or more pooled funds whose strategy is not offered as a segregated account may be terminated. These terminated composites are not required to be included on the firm’s list of composite descriptions. This is a one-time exemption to the requirement that terminated composites must be included on a firm’s list of composite descriptions for five years after the composite termination date. This exemption applies only to those composites that contain only one or more pooled funds and whose strategy is not managed for or not offered as a segregated account.

If an LDPF or BDPF is included in a composite, the LDPF or BDPF must still appear on the required list of LDPF descriptions or the list of BDPFs, if the firm offers participation in the pooled fund, either directly or through an agent. The firm may combine its complete list of composite descriptions, complete list of LDPF descriptions, and complete list of BDPFs into one document if it wishes to do so. The firm may also prepare a list of all the strategies that it offers and indicate, as part of the strategy description, the vehicles (segregated account, LDPF, or BDPF) in which the strategy is available.

*Composite and LDPF Descriptions*
A composite or LDPF description provides key information about the investment strategy. The description is not meant to replace more comprehensive descriptions of the investment strategy included in the composite or pooled fund definition, investment management agreement, and/or fund offering documents, but it should provide enough information about the strategy to be informative while remaining concise. It must provide enough information to prospective clients or prospective investors to make them aware of any significant features of a composite or pooled fund investment strategy that may distinguish the strategy from similar strategies within and between firms.

A composite description must include the material risks of the composite’s strategy. All investment products or strategies have some degree of inherent common risk, such as, but not limited to, market, currency, investment-specific, inflation, or interest rate risk. Firms may include these generic, systemic risks in a composite or pooled fund description but are not required to do so. It is not expected that the composite description or pooled fund description will include reference to every one of these generic, systemic risks unless any is materially more significant to a composite or pooled fund strategy than typically expected. The following are some of the risks that should be discussed in a composite or pooled fund description if the risks could have had significant influence on the historical returns or are a key feature of the strategy and need to be considered alongside the future expected returns:
- liquidity risk,
- leverage and derivatives risk,
- credit/issuer risk,
- counterparty risk,
- interest rate risk, and
- currency risk.

It is recognized that some strategies can be highly volatile or may be profoundly affected by market-driven events. Firms are reminded that composite descriptions and pooled fund descriptions must reflect material changes in the risks of the strategies that would be caused by market events or changes imposed by the firm.

*Example of a Composite Description for a Constant Proportion Portfolio Insurance Strategy*
- The strategy of this composite is based on the Constant Proportion Portfolio Insurance (CPPI) approach and is composed of a mix of risky assets (global large-cap equities) and short-term high-quality treasury bills. The strategy includes a dynamic allocation between the risky assets and treasury bills, which is adjusted on a monthly basis. The allocation to risky assets may vary from 0% to 100% and depends on the performance of the risky assets and the current risk tolerance limit (floor) expressed by the portfolio’s calculated minimum target value. The allocation to risky assets increases with positive performance of the risky assets and is reduced if the performance of the risky assets trends downwards. The strategy does not allow any leverage. This composite’s performance is compared with the Global Large-Cap Equities Index as the composite benchmark.

A sample list of composite descriptions and pooled fund descriptions is provided in Appendix D of the GIPS standards.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions