---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 1.A.32
## Standard for Firms
Performance from a past firm or affiliation may be used to represent the historical performance of the new or acquiring FIRM and [[LINK|LINKED]] to the performance of the new or acquiring FIRM if the FIRM meets the following REQUIREMENTS on a [[COMPOSITE]]-specific or POOLED FUND-specific basis:
- Substantially all of the investment decision makers MUST be employed by the new or acquiring FIRM (e.g., research department staff, portfolio managers, and other relevant staff);
- The decision-making process must remain substantially intact and independent within the new or acquiring FIRM;
- The new or acquiring FIRM MUST have records to support the performance;
- There MUST be no break in the track record between the past firm or affiliation and the new or acquiring FIRM.

If any of the above REQUIREMENTS are not met, the performance from a past firm or affiliation MUST NOT be linked to the ongoing performance record of the new or acquiring FIRM.
## Discussion
When a manager, group of managers, or an entire firm joins a new firm, the performance of the past firm or affiliation may be linked to or used to represent the historical performance of a new or acquiring firm if all of the following requirements are met on a composite-specific or pooled fund-specific basis:
- Substantially all of the investment decision makers (e.g., research department staff, portfolio managers, and other relevant staff) are employed by the new or acquiring firm;
- The decision-making process remains substantially intact and independent within the new or acquiring firm;
- The new or acquiring firm has records that document and support the performance; and
- There is no break in the track record between the past firm or affiliation and the new or acquiring firm.

If all of these portability requirements are met, the historical track record for the composite or pooled fund from the past or acquired firm may be ported and linked to the continuing composite or pooled fund track record at the new or acquiring firm and presented as a continuous track record. Although the linking of the track record is not required, it is best practice to do so. A firm should not use theoretical performance instead of actual performance to market a strategy when an actual portable track record is available.

If the firm does not meet all of these portability requirements, it may not link to the track record from the past or acquired firm. The actions that a firm may take with respect to the use of the composite or pooled fund track record from the past firm will depend on which requirement(s) cannot be met. In all cases, performance from a past firm must never be presented when the new or acquiring firm does not have records to document and support the performance. Suppose that the new or acquiring firm has records that document and support the performance from a past firm or affiliation but one or more of the other portability requirements are not met. In such a case, performance from the past or acquired firm must not be linked to performance at the new firm. For guidance on situations where there is a break in the track record between the past firm and the new or acquiring firm but all other portability requirements are met, see Provision [[1.A.33]].

For a firm to be able to link the track record from the past firm to the ongoing composite performance at the new firm in a GIPS Report, the track record must include all portfolios that were managed in the strategy at the past firm – that is, it must be composite performance. Where the provision states “on a composite-specific basis,” the word “composite” refers to the entire composite from the past firm, not a subset of portfolios. This is true even if the past firm did not claim compliance with the GIPS standards. Although the GIPS standards do not have a requirement that all portfolios must transfer from the past firm to the new firm, the firm must have all the records needed to document and support the entire composite performance history. If the new or acquiring firm cannot create a complete composite track record from the past firm or affiliation and can only create the track record using a subset of portfolios, that information cannot be linked to the track record of the composite at the new or acquiring firm in a GIPS Report. The track record based on a subset of the portfolios from the past firm can be presented only as supplemental information in a GIPS Report and must not be linked to the track record of the composite at the new or acquiring firm.

Outside of a GIPS Report, an acquiring firm that has records for only a subset of portfolios in a composite from a past firm or affiliation may link the performance of the subset of portfolios in the composite to the ongoing performance of the composite at the new firm if the linking is requested by a prospective client or prospective investor. The linked information may be presented in a one-on-one presentation that is created for and will be used only by the prospective client or prospective investor.

The linked information may also be presented outside of a GIPS Report if the following conditions are met:
- The linked information is presented in a one-on-one presentation that includes the delivery of a GIPS Report, if the corresponding GIPS Report has not been previously delivered to the prospective client or prospective investor;
- The linked information is presented only to prospective clients or prospective investors who the firm believes are sufficiently knowledgeable about investments and can understand the relevance and limitations of the track record being presented;
- There are sufficient disclosures regarding the linked information so that prospective clients and prospective investors understand that this is not a GIPS-compliant track record. Disclosure, however, does not necessarily prevent information from being false or misleading;
- The linked information is not presented if a GIPS-compliant track record is requested; and
- The linked information is not included in a consultant database.

If an acquired firm is compliant with the GIPS standards, the performance history meets the portability requirements, and the new or acquiring firm chooses to port the performance, then the firm must port the entire compliant track record that was presented by the acquired firm. If the ported track record is greater than 10 years, the acquiring firm may choose to present only a 10-year track record in GIPS Reports.

If a firm that is compliant with the GIPS standards acquires a non-compliant firm, the GIPS standards permit a one-year grace period to bring the acquired assets of the non-compliant firm into compliance with the GIPS standards. (See Provision [[1.A.34]] for additional guidance on the one-year grace period.)

If a firm wishes to port performance from an acquired non-compliant firm and link it to the firm’s ongoing performance, if it is possible, it must build a composite or pooled fund track record from the prior firm of at least five years, or since inception if the composite or pooled fund has been in existence for less than five years. If it is not possible to build a composite or pooled fund track record from the prior firm of at least five years, or since inception if the composite or pooled fund has been in existence for less than five years, it must build the history for as long as the firm is able to do so.

There may be cases in which a similar strategy is managed by the past firm or affiliation and the new or acquiring firm. The new or acquiring firm cannot combine the pre-acquisition track records or assets of a composite from the acquired firm with a composite from the acquiring firm and then show the combined track record or assets as GIPS-compliant information. The firm must determine if it will use the track record from the past firm or affiliation or use its own track record. On a prospective basis, the ongoing composite may consist of portfolios from the past firm or affiliation that have transferred to the new or acquiring firm and continue the same investment mandate or strategy as well as portfolios from the new or acquiring firm that meet the definition of the composite.

If a firm that is not compliant with the GIPS standards acquires a firm that is compliant, the non-compliant acquiring firm cannot then claim compliance with the GIPS standards, even if all the portability tests are met. The non-compliant acquiring firm will have to attain compliance for its own assets for at least a five-year period (or since the firm’s inception if it has been in existence for less than five years) before it can claim compliance for the newly combined entity.

- Example 1:
	- Firm A is acquired by and merges with Firm B to create Firm AB. The effective merger date is 1 August 2019. Both Firm A and Firm B claim compliance with the GIPS standards, and all portability requirements are met. Firm A has a large-cap growth equity composite (Composite A), and Firm B has a large-cap core equity composite (Composite B). It is decided that, after the acquisition, all large-cap equity portfolios will be managed based on the strategy of Composite A, which will be the “surviving” composite. The portfolios in Composite B will be modified to conform to the strategy of Composite A and moved into Composite A. Composite B will cease to exist and will be included on the list of composite descriptions as a terminated composite. Firm AB wants to present a track record for its large-cap composite that includes performance from Firm A and will use Composite A’s historical track record.
	  
	- Starting 1 August 2019, the effective date of the merger, the historical track record of Composite A will be linked to the ongoing performance of Composite A. Starting no earlier than 1 August 2019, Composite A will also include the portfolios from Composite B that have been modified to conform to the strategy of Composite A.

- Example 2:
	- Firm A is acquired by and merges with Firm B to create Firm AB. The effective merger date is 1 August 2019. Both Firm A and Firm B claim compliance with the GIPS standards, and all of the portability requirements are met. At the time of the merger, each firm has a large-cap composite. Firm A’s large-cap composite (Composite A) and Firm B’s large-cap composite (Composite B) have the same benchmark and strategies that are very similar. Firm AB plans to combine the two composites and create one large-cap composite, Composite AB. Firm AB wants to present a track record for Composite AB that includes the pre-merger track record.
	  
	- When presenting large-cap composite history through 31 July 2019:
		- The large-cap composite history through 31 July 2019 may be the track record of either Composite A or Composite B, whichever is selected as the “surviving” composite.
		- The track record presented for the large-cap composite history through 31 July 2019 must not be a combination of the track records of Composite A and Composite B.
		  
	- When presenting the large-cap composite performance from 1 August 2019 forward:
		- Starting no earlier than 1 August 2019, Firm AB may combine the portfolios in the surviving composite with the portfolios in the non-surviving composite. For example, if Composite B is the surviving composite, the firm can include the portfolios from Composite A in the surviving Composite B on or after 1 August 2019.
		- The performance of Composite AB, which includes portfolios from Composite A for periods from 1 August 2019 forward, is linked to the pre-merger track record of Composite B.
		  
	- The non-surviving composite, Composite A, must be included on the list of composite descriptions as a terminated composite.

- Example 3:
	- Firm A is acquired by and merges with Firm B to create Firm AB. The effective merger date is 1 August 2019. Both Firm A and Firm B claim compliance with the GIPS standards, and all portability requirements are met. Firm A has a large-cap growth equity composite (Composite A), and Firm B has a large-cap core equity composite (Composite B). It is decided that Firm AB will create a new large-cap equity strategy that will blend the strategies of Composite A and Composite B. Therefore, neither the strategy of Composite A nor Composite B will be carried forward into the new merged firm. In this case, there is no “surviving” strategy. Firm AB’s new large-cap composite will have no performance history. Performance for the firm’s new large-cap composite will begin on or after the effective merger date of 1 August 2019.
	  
	- The track records of Composite A and Composite B, based on pre-merger investment strategies, must be included on the list of composite descriptions as terminated composites.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions