---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 1.A.23
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST provide:
- The complete list of composite descriptions to any PROSPECTIVE CLIENT that makes such a request.
- The complete list of POOLED FUND DESCRIPTIONS for [[LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND|LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUNDS]] to any [[LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND]] PROSPECTIVE INVESTOR that makes such a request. This list may include only the [[LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND|LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUNDS]] for which the PROSPECTIVE INVESTOR is eligible.
- The complete list of [[BROAD DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND|BROAD DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUNDS]] to any [[BROAD DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND]] PROSPECTIVE INVESTOR that makes such a request. This list may include only the [[BROAD DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND|BROAD DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUNDS]] for which the PROSPECTIVE INVESTOR is eligible. If the FIRM maintains a complete list of [[BROAD DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND|BROAD DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUNDS]] on its website, the FIRM may instead direct the PROSPECTIVE INVESTOR to the FIRM’S website.
- The POOLED FUND DESCRIPTION for any [[BROAD DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND]] to any [[BROAD DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND]] PROSPECTIVE INVESTOR that makes such a request.
## Discussion
In addition to maintaining a complete list of composite descriptions, a complete list of limited distribution pooled fund (LDPF) descriptions, and a complete list of broad distribution pooled funds (BDPFs), as applicable to the firm, firms must provide these lists to prospective clients or pooled fund prospective investors upon request. The discussion of Provision [[1.A.22]] addresses the creation of these lists.

- ***Requests by a Prospective Client for a Firm’s List of Composite Descriptions***
	- The complete list of composite descriptions must be provided to any prospective client upon request. This list must include all of the firm’s composites, including those that have terminated within the past five years. Although firms are required to provide a complete list of composite descriptions to any prospective client that makes such a request, they are encouraged to provide this information to anyone else who makes the request.

- ***Requests by a Prospective Investor for a Firm’s List of LDPF Descriptions***
	- The complete list of LDPF descriptions must be provided to any prospective investor upon request. Note that this list may be tailored to include only those LDPFs for which the prospective investor is eligible, but the firm is not required to do so. Although firms are required to provide a complete list of LDPF descriptions to any prospective investor who makes such a request, they are encouraged to provide this information to anyone else who makes the request.

- ***Requests by a Prospective Investor for a Complete List of BDPFs***
	- The complete list of a firm’s BDPFs must be provided to any prospective investor upon request. Note that this list may be tailored to include only those BDPFs for which the prospective investor is eligible, but the firm is not required to do so. If the firm includes information about all of its BDPFs on its website, the firm may direct a prospective investor to its website rather than provide the list directly.

For BDPFs, a firm is required to maintain and provide only a complete list of BDPF names. Firms are not required to provide a complete list of BDPF descriptions. However, a firm must provide a description of a specific BDPF to any BDPF prospective investor who makes such a request. Firms may provide a prospectus or offering document for the BDPF to fulfill this request.

Although firms are required to provide a list of BDPFs or a description of a specific BDPF to any prospective investor who makes such a request, they are encouraged to provide this information to anyone else who makes the request.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions