---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 1.A.33
## Standard for Firms
Performance from a past firm or affiliation may be used to represent the historical performance of the new or acquiring FIRM when there is a break in the track record between the past FIRM or affiliation and the new or acquiring FIRM if the new or acquiring FIRM meets the following REQUIREMENTS on a [[COMPOSITE]]-specific or POOLED FUND-specific basis:
- Substantially all of the investment decision makers MUST be employed by the new or acquiring FIRM (e.g., research department staff, portfolio managers, and other relevant staff);
- The decision-making process MUST remain substantially intact and independent within the new or acquiring FIRM;
- The new or acquiring FIRM MUST have records to support the performance;
- The new or acquiring FIRM MUST separately present the performance before the break and after the break;
- The new or acquiring FIRM MUST NOT [[LINK]] performance prior to the break in the track record to the performance after the break in the track record.
## Discussion
A break in the performance track record between the past firm or affiliation and the new firm may occur for a number of reasons. For example, an acquired team may be required to take a garden leave prior to joining the new firm, and the portfolios previously managed by the acquired team would not be managed by them during the garden leave, resulting in a gap in performance until a track record is established at the new firm. If there is a break in the performance track record between the past firm or affiliation and the new or acquiring firm, it may be permissible for performance from the past firm or affiliation to be used to represent the historical performance of the new or acquiring firm if certain requirements are met.

First, the firm must meet all of the other requirements for portability (listed in items a through c in the provision):
- Substantially all of the investment decision makers are employed by the new or acquiring firm;
- The decision-making process remains substantially intact and independent within the new or acquiring firm; and
- The new or acquiring firm has the records to support the performance.

Second, the firm must meet the requirements for the presentation of the performance from the past firm or affiliation (listed in items d through e in the provision):
- Performance before and after the break in the track record must be presented separately; and
- Performance prior to the break in the track record must not be linked to the performance after the break in the track record.

If the firm does not meet all of the tests specified in items a through c, the performance from the past firm or affiliation must not be used to represent the historical performance of the new or acquiring firm.

If all of the tests specified in items a through c are met, and the firm chooses to present the performance from the past firm or affiliation, the track record must be shown in two segments: one segment representing performance before the break in the track record and one segment representing performance after the break in the track record.

As an example, suppose that Firm A acquires Firm B, which has a large-cap growth composite. All conditions for portability are met, except that there is a break in the performance track record of the large-cap growth composite during the acquisition process. The performance track record for the large-cap growth composite at Firm B begins on 1 August 2014 and ends on 18 June 2019, the date of the acquisition. The track record resumes at Firm A on 1 July 2019. The complete track record for the large-cap growth composite may be shown, but it must be shown in two segments. Assuming that Firm A calculates composite performance on a monthly basis, Firm A may show performance from 1 August 2014 through 31 May 2019. It may then show performance from 1 July 2019 forward. These two segments of the large-cap growth composite track record must be presented separately and must not be linked. The below [[#Example]] shows how the performance of the large-cap growth composite could be presented in a GIPS Composite Report, with the break in performance clearly indicated.

If the firm is asked to provide cumulative performance for the large-cap growth composite as of 31 December 2020, including performance for one-year, three-year, and five-year periods, the firm would be able to provide cumulative performance for only a one-year period. Three-year and five-year cumulative performance does not exist because of the break in performance in 2019.

In keeping with the principles of fair representation and full disclosure, the GIPS standards require firms to handle all situations involving a break in performance with the greatest transparency.

In order for a firm to be able to use the track record from the past firm or affiliation in a GIPS Report, the track record must include all portfolios that were managed in the strategy at the past firm – that is, it must be composite performance. Where the provision states “on a composite-specific basis”, the word “composite” refers to the entire composite from the past firm, not a subset of portfolios. This is true even if the past firm did not claim compliance with the GIPS standards. While the GIPS standards do not have a requirement that all portfolios must transfer from the past firm to the new firm, the firm must have all the records needed to document and support the entire composite performance history. If the new or acquiring firm cannot create a complete composite track record from the past firm or affiliation and can only create the track record using a subset of portfolios, that information cannot be used at the new or acquiring firm in a GIPS Report. The track record based on a subset of the portfolios from the past firm can be presented only as supplemental information in a GIPS Report.

Outside of a GIPS Report, an acquiring firm that has records for only a subset of portfolios in a composite from a past firm or affiliation may use the performance of the subset of portfolios from the past firm or affiliation at the new firm if the information is requested by a prospective client or prospective investor. The subset information may be presented in a one-on-one presentation that is created for and will be used only by the prospective client or prospective investor.

The subset information may also be presented outside of a GIPS Report if the following conditions are met:
- The subset information is presented in a one-on-one presentation that includes the delivery of a GIPS Report, if the corresponding GIPS Report has not been previously delivered to the prospective client or prospective investor;
- The subset information is presented only to prospective clients or prospective investors who the firm believes are sufficiently knowledgeable about investments and can understand the relevance and limitations of the track record being presented;
- There are sufficient disclosures regarding the subset information so that prospective clients and prospective investors understand that this is not a GIPS-compliant track record. Disclosure, however, does not necessarily prevent information from being false or misleading;
- The subset information is not presented if a GIPS-compliant track record is requested; and
- The subset information is not included in a consultant database.

### Example
| Year                     | Composite Gross Return (%) | Composite Net Return (%) | XYZ Index (%) | Composite 3-Yr-St Dev (%) | Benchmark 3-Yr St Dev (%) | Number of Portfolios | Internal Dispersion (%) | Composite Assets ($ M) | Firm Assets ($ M) |
| ------------------------ | -------------------------- | ------------------------ | ------------- | ------------------------- | ------------------------- | -------------------- | ----------------------- | ---------------------- | ----------------- |
| 2020                     | -0.84                      | -1.83                    | -0.65         |                           |                           | 2                    | 4.8                     | 493                    | 12,989            |
| 1 Jul-31 Dec 2019        | 3.98                       | 3.46                     | 3.58          |                           |                           | 2                    |                         | 475                    | 12,678            |
| 1 Jan-31 May 2019        | 1.22                       | 0.81                     | 3.46          |                           |                           |                      |                         |                        | 5,367             |
| 2018                     | 8.22                       | 7.15                     | 7.09          | 12.95                     | 11.15                     | 3                    | 3.8                     | 594                    | 5,249             |
| 2017                     | 6.52                       | 5.47                     | 5.67          | 12.51                     | 10.68                     | 5                    | 3.1                     | 682                    | 5,439             |
| 2016                     | 14.50                      | 13.37                    | 13.03         |                           |                           | 12                   | 3.6                     | 1,094                  | 5,986             |
| 2015                     | 41.16                      | 39.80                    | 33.36         |                           |                           | 22                   | 2.7                     | 2,012                  | 8,401             |
| 1 Aug,2014 - 31 Dec 2014 | 18.66                      | 17.49                    | 15.48         |                           |                           | 20                   |                         | 1,978                  | 7,423             |
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions