---
tags: []
---
Links: [[1. Fundamentals of Compliance]]
___
# 1.A.29
## Standard for Firms
For TIME-WEIGHTED RETURNS presented in [[GIPS REPORT|GIPS REPORTS]], the FIRM MUST NOT [[LINK]] non-GIPS-compliant performance for periods beginning on or after the [[MINIMUM EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE DATE]] to GIPS-compliant performance. The FIRM may [[LINK]] non-GIPS-compliant performance to GIPS-compliant performance in [[GIPS REPORT|GIPS REPORTS]] provided that only GIPS-compliant performance is presented for periods beginning on or after the [[MINIMUM EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE DATE]].
## Discussion
The minimum effective compliance date is the date after which a firm may present only GIPS-compliant performance in GIPS Reports. When presenting time-weighted returns in a GIPS Report, the firm must not link non-GIPS-compliant performance for periods beginning on or after the minimum effective compliance date to GIPS-compliant performance. Most composites and pooled funds have a minimum effective compliance date of 1 January 2000. Therefore, for these composites and pooled funds, performance for periods after 1 January 2000 that does not comply with the GIPS standards must not be presented as part of a GIPS Report. Real estate and private equity composites and pooled funds and wrap fee composites have a different minimum effective compliance date of 1 January 2006. For these composites and pooled funds, performance for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006 that does not comply with the GIPS standards must not be presented in a GIPS Report. For any performance presented for periods beginning prior to the minimum effective compliance date that does not comply with the GIPS standards in a GIPS Report, firms must disclose the periods of non-compliance.

Outside of a GIPS Report, non-compliant performance for periods beginning on or after the minimum effective compliance date may be linked to compliant performance if the linking is requested by a prospective client or prospective investor. The linked information may be presented in a one-on-one presentation that is created for and will be used only by the prospective client or prospective investor.

The linked information may also be presented outside of a GIPS Report in marketing materials provided to other prospective clients or prospective investors if the following conditions are met.
- The linked information is presented in a one-on-one presentation that includes the delivery of a GIPS Report, if the corresponding GIPS Report has not been previously delivered to the prospective client or prospective investor;
- The linked information is presented only to prospective clients or prospective investors who the firm believes are sufficiently knowledgeable about investments and can understand the relevance and limitations of the track record being presented;
- There are sufficient disclosures regarding the linked information so that prospective clients and prospective investors understand that this is not a GIPS-compliant track record. Disclosure, however, does not necessarily prevent information from being false or misleading;
- The linked information is not presented if a GIPS-compliant track record is requested; and
- The linked information is not included in a consultant database.

In a GIPS Report, the GIPS standards allow firms to link non-GIPS-compliant performance to the composite’s GIPS-compliant history provided that only GIPS-compliant performance is shown for periods beginning on or after the minimum effective compliance date.

For example, suppose that a firm has been in existence since 1997 and would like to show its entire performance history. It wants to claim compliance beginning 1 January 2005. Given the type of assets the firm manages, its minimum effective compliance date is 1 January 2000. The firm must present returns that meet the requirements of the GIPS standards for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2000. The firm may link non-compliant performance history for periods ended prior to 1 January 2000 to its GIPS-compliant performance. It must not link non-GIPS-compliant performance for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2000 to its GIPS-compliant performance. If any non-compliant performance is presented for periods ended prior to 1 January 2000, the firm must disclose that the performance for periods prior to 1 January 2000 is not in compliance with the GIPS standards. The firm is encouraged to bring its entire performance history into compliance but is not required to do so.

The purpose of this requirement is to ensure that all performance presented after the minimum effective compliance date complies with the GIPS standards so that prospective clients and prospective investors can more easily compare performance results between firms. Firms are reminded that they must comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding the calculation and presentation of performance and they must not present performance or performance-related information that is false or misleading.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions