---
tags: []
---
Links: [[1. Fundamentals of Compliance]]
___
# 1.A.38
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST notify CFA Institute of its claim of compliance by submitting the [[GIPS COMPLIANCE NOTIFICATION FORM]]. This form:
- MUST be filed when the FIRM initially claims compliance with the GIPS standards.
- MUST be updated annually with information as of the most recent 31 December, with the exception of firm contact information, which must be current as of the form submission date.
- MUST be filed annually thereafter by 30 June.
## Discussion
Firms must notify CFA Institute of their claim of compliance by submitting the GIPS Compliance Notification Form, which can be found on the CFA Institute website (cfainstitute.org).

When a firm is first coming into compliance, the firm must submit the GIPS Compliance Notification Form to CFA Institute once it has met all of the requirements of the GIPS standards and is at the point of initially claiming compliance with the GIPS standards. The firm must not claim compliance with the GIPS standards unless the GIPS Compliance Notification Form has been submitted to CFA Institute.

After the initial filing, the form must be filed annually by 30 June. Information provided in the GIPS Compliance Notification Form must be as of the most recent 31 December, with the exception of the firm’s contact information. Contact information must be current as of the form’s submission date. The period of any verification performed would not impact the notification submission date or the date as of which the information is provided. Firms must establish policies and procedures to ensure the form is submitted by the deadline.

The GIPS Compliance Notification Form must reflect the definition of the firm used to determine firm-wide compliance with the GIPS standards even when the definition of the firm is different from the legal entity of the firm. If the overall legal entity contains multiple GIPS firms for GIPS compliance purposes, a separate GIPS Compliance Form must be submitted for each defined firm.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions