---
tags: []
---
Links: [[1. Fundamentals of Compliance]]
___
# 1.A.6
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST:
- Comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding the calculation and presentation of performance.
- Create policies and procedures to monitor and identify changes and additions to laws and regulations regarding the calculation and presentation of performance.
## Discussion
The GIPS standards provide an ethical framework for calculating and presenting a firm’s investment performance history. Firms must also comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding the calculation and presentation of performance in the country or countries in which they are domiciled as well as those countries in which they do business. Firms must create policies and procedures to ensure that they adhere to all applicable laws and regulations regarding the calculation and presentation of performance. Firms must also have policies and procedures to identify and monitor changes and additions to laws and regulations regarding the calculation and presentation of performance.

Compliance with applicable laws and regulations does not necessarily result in compliance with the GIPS standards. Firms claiming compliance must comply with the GIPS standards in addition to all applicable laws and regulations. In the rare cases when laws and regulations conflict with the GIPS standards, firms are required to comply with the laws and regulations and disclose the manner in which the laws or regulations conflict with the GIPS standards.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions