---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links:
___
# 1.A.9
## Standard for Firms
Statements referring to the calculation methodology as being “in accordance,” “in compliance” or “consistent” with the Global Investment Performance Standards, or similar statements, are prohibited.
## Discussion
Only firms that manage actual assets may claim compliance with the GIPS standards. For firms that do manage actual assets, either directly or through the use of sub-advisors, compliance can be achieved only when the firm has met all of the applicable requirements of the GIPS standards on a firm-wide basis. Compliance with the GIPS standards involves more than just the use of a particular calculation methodology. To avoid any confusion, references to the GIPS standards must not be used in the context of reporting performance or performance presentations when the firm is not in compliance with the GIPS standards.

Software vendors, custodians, and other service providers do not manage actual assets and cannot claim compliance with the GIPS standards. They may make reference to the fact that their software or services may help an asset manager achieve or maintain compliance with the GIPS standards, if that is the case. For example, a software vendor may state that its software system calculates performance that satisfies the calculation requirements of the GIPS standards, but the vendor must not state or imply that using its system automatically makes a firm compliant with the GIPS standards or that its system complies with the GIPS standards.

Consultant databases or questionnaires often require investment management firms to fill in monthly or quarterly performance data. The databases or questionnaires then ask the manager to indicate whether or not the data presented has been prepared in accordance with the GIPS standards. When responding to such a database or questionnaire, a firm that claims compliance with the GIPS standards may state that the returns “are prepared in compliance with the GIPS standards” if the following conditions are met:
- The performance information used to complete the questionnaire is consistent with the information used to prepare the corresponding GIPS Report;
- If applicable, the performance information used to complete the questionnaire is more current than the information currently included in the corresponding GIPS Report but will be used in the future to update the corresponding GIPS Report; and
- If applicable, the performance information used to complete the questionnaire is older than the information currently included in the corresponding GIPS Report but could have been used to report the composite’s or pooled fund’s performance for periods prior to those currently included in the GIPS Report.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions