---
tags: []
---
Links: [[1. Fundamentals of Compliance]]
___
# 1.A.24
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST provide:
- A [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]] for any COMPOSITE listed on the FIRM’S list of [[COMPOSITE DESCRIPTION|COMPOSITE DESCRIPTIONS]] to any [[PROSPECTIVE CLIENT]] that makes such a request.
- A [[GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT]] or [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]], provided the [[LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND]] is included in the respective [[COMPOSITE]], for any [[LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND]] listed on the FIRM’S list of POOLED FUND DESCRIPTIONS for [[LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND|LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUNDS]] to any [[LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND]] [[PROSPECTIVE INVESTOR]] that makes such a request.
## Discussion
Provisions [[1.A.11]] and [[1.A.13]] require firms to make every reasonable effort to provide the appropriate GIPS Report to all prospective clients who are interested in a particular composite strategy and to all prospective investors who are interested in a limited distribution pooled fund (LDPF). This provision requires a firm to provide a GIPS Report to a prospective client or prospective investor upon request.

This requirement is an acknowledgement that, before investing with a firm, a prospective client or a prospective investor will often want to gain knowledge of the firm that goes beyond information about the particular composite or pooled fund strategy in which they may want to invest. Requesting a GIPS Report for other composites or pooled funds may help the prospective client or prospective investor gain a fuller picture of the firm’s investment activities and a deeper understanding of the firm with which they are considering investing.

A firm must provide a GIPS Composite Report for any composite listed on the firm’s list of composite descriptions to a prospective client upon request. The firm must therefore have the ability to prepare and provide a GIPS Composite Report for any composite on the firm’s list of composite descriptions, including composites that are not typically marketed or that have been terminated within the past five years.

A firm must provide a GIPS Report for any LDPF listed on the firm’s list of LDPF descriptions to an LDPF prospective investor upon request. The report provided may be a GIPS Pooled Fund Report or a GIPS Composite Report if the LDPF is included in the respective composite. The firm must therefore have the ability to prepare and provide a GIPS Report for any LDPF listed on the firm’s list of LDPF descriptions, including LDPFs that are not marketed.

Firms that manage sub-advised pooled funds that are marketed or distributed by another firm as either an LDPF or a broad distribution pooled fund (BDPF) must treat these portfolios as segregated accounts and not pooled funds for the purpose of determining the composite assignment and on which list they must be maintained.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions