---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 1.A.13
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST make every reasonable effort to provide a [[GIPS REPORT]] to all [[LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND]] PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS when they initially become PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS. The [[GIPS REPORT]] may be either:
- A [[GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT]], or
- A [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]]. A [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]] may be provided only if the [[LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND]] is included in the respective [[COMPOSITE]].

The FIRM MUST NOT choose to which [[LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND]] PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS it presents a [[GIPS REPORT]].
## Discussion
The firm must make every reasonable effort to provide a GIPS Report to all limited distribution pooled fund (LDPF) prospective investors when they initially become prospective investors. The GIPS Report may be either a GIPS Pooled Fund Report or a GIPS Composite Report. A GIPS Composite Report may be provided only if the LDPF is included in the respective composite. The firm must not choose to which LDPF prospective investors it presents a GIPS Report. For purposes of complying with the GIPS standards, the firm must classify pooled funds as either broad distribution pooled funds (BDPFs) or LDPFs. Because the reporting requirements in Provision [[1.A.13]] apply only to LDPFs, firms that offer pooled funds must be able to correctly classify their pooled funds in order to determine whether this provision applies. The classification of pooled funds is made at the fund level, not the share class level.

_A broad distribution pooled fund_ (BDPF) is a pooled fund that is:
- regulated under a framework that would permit the general public to purchase or hold the pooled fund’s shares, and
- is not exclusively offered in one-on-one presentations.

_A limited distribution pooled fund_ (LDPF) is any pooled fund that is not a broad distribution pooled fund.

Although the classification of pooled funds is often straightforward (e.g., a fund that may be purchased by the general public online is typically a BDPF), there are situations in which the appropriate classification of a pooled fund is less clear.

In some cases, a firm elects to offer or sell the pooled fund to only a subset of the general public, such as retirement accounts for individuals. For purposes of classifying funds as limited or broad, these funds are considered to be available to the general public because anyone within the limited group of investors may purchase or hold the pooled fund’s shares.

Because the classification of a fund is made at the pooled fund level, no pooled fund will have some of its classes of shares classified as a BDPF and some as an LDPF. If the firm offers, or is permitted to offer, any of the pooled fund’s share classes to the general public, and the shares are not sold exclusively in one-on-one presentations, the pooled fund may be classified as a BDPF. This would be the case even if some shares classes of the fund are not available to the general public or are offered only in a one-one-one presentation.

If a firm is the sub-advisor for a pooled fund that is marketed or distributed by another firm as either an LDPF or a BDPF, the firm acting as sub-advisor must treat the sub-advised pooled fund as a segregated account. It must be included in a composite if it is fee-paying and discretionary. Only if the firm offers participation in the pooled fund, either directly or through an agent, would the pooled fund be considered either a BDPF or LDPF.

This [[#Table of Pooled Fund Classifications|table]] provides information about how to classify pooled funds as BDPF or LDPF.

The table categorizes several common pooled fund structures as LDPFs or BDPFs. Because of the diversity of fund structures in various jurisdictions, these examples cannot address every possible structure, and many firms will need to make good faith determinations regarding the treatment of specific pooled funds.

***Providing GIPS Reports to LDPF Prospective Investors***
If a firm offers LDPFs, it is required to provide an LDPF prospective investor with a GIPS Report. The GIPS Report can be either a GIPS Pooled Fund Report or a GIPS Composite Report.

- A GIPS Pooled Fund Report is a presentation for a pooled fund that contains all the information required by the GIPS standards and may also include recommended information, supplemental information, and other information. Other information may be included as long as it is not false or misleading.
- A GIPS Composite Report is a presentation for a composite that contains all the information required by the GIPS standards and may also include recommended information, supplemental information, and other information. Other information may be included as long as it is not false or misleading.

A GIPS Composite Report may be provided to an LDPF prospective investor in lieu of a GIPS Pooled Fund Report but only if the LDPF is included in the respective composite.

An LDPF prospective investor is any person or entity that has expressed interest in one of the firm’s LDPFs and is qualified to invest in the fund. Current pooled fund investors may also qualify as prospective investors for any pooled fund that is different from their current pooled fund. Providing a GIPS Report to current pooled fund investors interested in a pooled fund different from their current pooled fund will help ensure that they have information to better evaluate the new pooled fund and make an informed decision. Investment consultants, consultant databases, and other third parties are included as prospective investors if they represent individuals or entities that qualify as prospective investors.

It is up to the firm to establish policies and procedures for determining who is considered to be a pooled fund prospective investor, including policies and procedures for determining when an interested party becomes an LDPF prospective investor. An interested party becomes a pooled fund prospective investor when two tests are met. First, the interested party must have expressed interest in a specific LDPF. Second, the firm must have determined that the interested party qualifies to invest in the respective pooled fund. For example, assume a firm is meeting with an interested party to introduce the firm to the interested party. At this initial meeting, the firm provides information about itself in an attempt to attract the interested party to invest with the firm. At this point, the two tests to qualify as a pooled fund prospective investor have not been met; therefore, the interested party is not yet a prospective investor, and the firm is not obligated to provide a GIPS Report. However, the firm should communicate that it claims compliance with the GIPS standards and offer to provide a list of all composite and LDPF descriptions.

Once the interested party expresses interest in a specific LDPF and the firm determines that the interested party qualifies to invest in the pooled fund, the interested party then becomes a pooled fund prospective investor. At this point, the firm must make every reasonable effort to provide the prospective investor with the appropriate GIPS Report.

***LDPFs with No Performance History***
Participation in a new LDPF is often marketed by a firm before the pooled fund has a track record. If an LDPF has no performance history, there is no requirement to provide a GIPS Report. It is recommended, however, that the firm provide the most appropriate track record for the new fund if an appropriate track record is available. (See Provision [[1.B.7]].) The most appropriate track record would be a GIPS Report for a composite or another pooled fund that the firm manages according to the same or similar strategy as the LDPF that has not yet started. If an appropriate track record is presented to prospective investors, sufficient information should be provided so that pooled fund prospective investors understand the source and nature of the track record presented. As is always the case, the information presented must adhere to the principles of fair representation and full disclosure.

A prospective investor may request a GIPS Report for a new LDPF for which the firm is not yet required to prepare a GIPS Report. The firm may also wish to market a new LDPF for which a GIPS Report has not yet been created because the LDPF has not reached the initial annual period end. In such cases, the performance for the LDPF must be made available, but it is not required to be within a GIPS Report. If the prospective investor for this new LDPF is still a prospective investor after a GIPS Report with performance through the initial annual period end is prepared, the firm must provide this GIPS Report to the prospective investor.

***Tracking Which GIPS Report Has Been Provided***
Because a firm is required to demonstrate that it made every reasonable effort to provide LDPF prospective investors with a GIPS Composite Report or GIPS Pooled Fund Report (see Provision [[1.A.17]]), a firm should establish policies and procedures for tracking which GIPS Report(s) or initial partial-period performance outside of a GIPS Report were provided to which LDPF prospective investors and when. Doing so will allow a firm to determine when ongoing LDPF prospective investors must receive an updated GIPS Report. (See Provision [[1.A.14]] regarding the requirement to provide an updated GIPS Report to ongoing prospective investors.) It will also allow a firm to know who must receive a corrected GIPS Report in cases where the firm determines that a previously distributed GIPS Report contained a material error. (See Provisions [[1.A.20]] and [[1.A.21]].)

***Electronic Delivery***
It is the firm’s obligation to make every reasonable effort to provide a GIPS Report to prospective investors. This obligation may be met by providing the GIPS Report directly to the prospective investor or by providing the prospective investor with an electronic link to the GIPS Report. However, the link provided must be a direct link to either the GIPS Pooled Fund Report for the LDPF in which the prospective investor is interested or the GIPS Composite Report for the composite in which the LDPF is included, and not simply a general link to firm information, such as a link to the firm’s website.

***Performance Information Outside of a GIPS Report***
Firms are not limited to providing only GIPS Reports to LDPF prospective investors or interested parties. Firms may present other performance or performance-related information, in addition to the GIPS Report, as long as it is not false or misleading. The firm may also provide any performance or performance-related information a prospective investor requests for use in a one-on-one presentation. Such information must be restricted to a one-on-one presentation for use with that specific prospective investor and must be accompanied with comprehensive disclosures that explain the information being presented. A one-on-one presentation is not limited to a formal presentation or to information presented in a face-to-face meeting. In this case, the one-on-one presentation refers to the presentation that is created for and will be used only by the prospective investor who made the request.

### Table of Pooled Fund Classifications

| Example | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | BDPF/ LDPF | Not Offered Exclusively in One-on-One Presentations | Regulations Permit General Public to Purchase Shares | Explanation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | --------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1.      | Pooled fund with one or more share classes that are offered to the general public (retail share classes). The share classes are not sold exclusively in one-on-one presentations.                                                                                                                                                                                    | BDPF       | Yes                                                 | Yes                                                  | The fund is classified as a BDPF because it is regulated under a framework that would permit the general public to purchase or hold shares and is offered to the general public in a manner that does not exclusively involve one-on-one presentations.                                                                                                            |
| 2.      | Pooled fund that is regulated under a framework that would permit the general public to purchase or hold shares, but the firm has chosen to offer institutional share classes only. All share classes are sold exclusively in one-on-one presentations.                                                                                                              | LDPF       | No                                                  | Yes                                                  | The fund is classified as an LDPF because it is offered exclusively in one-on-one presentations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 3.      | Pooled fund that is regulated under a framework that would permit the general public to purchase or hold shares, but the firm has chosen to offer institutional share classes only. The fund is marketed in a variety of ways that do not always involve a one-on-one presentation with prospective institutional investors.                                         | BDPF       | Yes                                                 | Yes                                                  | The fund is classified as a BDPF because it is regulated under a framework that would permit the general public to purchase or hold share although the firm has chosen not to do so, and it is not offered exclusively in one-on-one presentations.                                                                                                                |
| 4.      | Pooled fund regulated under a framework that would permit the general public to purchase or hold the pooled fund’s shares. The firm offers shares of the fund exclusively in one-on-one presentations.                                                                                                                                                               | LDPF       | No                                                  | Yes                                                  | The fund is classified as an LDPF because all share classes are offered exclusively in one-on-one presentations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 5.      | Pooled fund with one or more retail share classes and one or more institutional share classes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | BDPF       | Yes                                                 | Yes                                                  | The fund is classified as a BDPF because it has retail share classes, whether or not its institutional classes are offered exclusively in one-on-one presentations.                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| 6.      | Pooled fund with one or more retail share classes that is classified as a BDPF in its home country, but it may be offered only as a private placement in other countries for regulatory reasons.                                                                                                                                                                     | BDPF       | Yes                                                 | Yes                                                  | The fund is classified as a BDPF because it has retail share classes, even though in other jurisdictions it may not be held by the general public and is offered in one-on-one presentations.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 7.      | Pooled fund with shares traded on an exchange.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | BDPF       | Yes                                                 | Yes                                                  | The fund is classified as a BDPF because it is regulated under a framework that would permit the general public to purchase or hold shares and is not offered exclusively in one-on-one presentations.                                                                                                                                                             |
| 8.      | Pooled fund that is regulated under a framework that would permit the general public to purchase or hold shares, but that for regulatory or business reasons is offered exclusively through intermediaries and/ or via platforms that are accessible to investors that meet certain qualifications. The fund is not offered exclusively in one-on-one presentations. | BDPF       | Yes                                                 | Yes                                                  | The fund is classified as a BDPF because it is regulated under a framework that would permit the general public to purchase or hold its shares and it is not offered exclusively in one-on-one presentations.                                                                                                                                                      |
| 9.      | Pooled fund that is regulated under a framework that would permit certain members of the general public to purchase or hold shares, and is sold exclusively to investors with certain tax or affinity characteristics (e.g., retirement accounts). The fund is not offered exclusively in one-on-one presentations.                                                  | BDPF       | Yes                                                 | Yes                                                  | Funds that are available only to a subset of investors with certain tax or affinity characteristics that are shared by a large portion of the public are considered to be available to the general public.                                                                                                                                                         |
| 10.     | Pooled fund that has a partnership structure and is exclusively offered in one-on-one presentations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | LDPF       | No                                                  | No                                                   | The fund is classified as an LDPF because it is offered exclusively in one-on-one presentations and is not available to the general public.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| 11.     | Pooled fund that is exclusively offered in one-on-one presentations to sponsors or agents that make investment decisions on behalf of beneficial owners (e.g., plan participants).                                                                                                                                                                                   | LDPF       | No                                                  | No                                                   | The fund is classified as an LDPF because it is offered exclusively in one-on-one presentations to the sponsor or agent that makes investment decisions (determines which pooled funds will be offered to beneficial owners) on behalf of beneficial owners. In this scenario, the firm has no obligation to provide GIPS Reports to individual beneficial owners. |

## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions