---
tags: []
---
Links: [[1. Fundamentals of Compliance]]
___
# 1.A.7
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST NOT present performance or [[PERFORMANCE-RELATED INFORMATION]] that is false or misleading. This REQUIREMENT applies to all performance or [[PERFORMANCE-RELATED INFORMATION]] on a FIRM-wide basis and is not limited to those materials that reference the GIPS standards. The FIRM may provide any performance or [[PERFORMANCE-RELATED INFORMATION]] that is specifically requested by a [[PROSPECTIVE CLIENT]] or [[PROSPECTIVE INVESTOR]] for use in a one-on-one presentation.
## Discussion
The underlying principles of the GIPS standards, fair representation and full disclosure, help to ensure that current and prospective clients and investors are not given performance or performance-related information that is incomplete, inaccurate, biased, or fraudulent. Firms must not present any performance or performance-related information that is known to be inaccurate or that may mislead either current or prospective clients or current or prospective investors. This concept applies to all performance and performance-related materials on a firm-wide basis and is not limited to those materials that reference the GIPS standards. Examples of information that is misleading and unrepresentative include the presentation of custom benchmark returns that have been reduced by model investment management fees (i.e., net-of-fees benchmark returns) when only gross-of-fees composite returns are presented, or model performance that is presented as actual performance.

Firms are not limited to providing only GIPS-compliant information to prospective clients, prospective investors, or other interested parties. Firms may present other performance or performance-related information as long as it is not false or misleading.

> [!CAUTION] The following information has an especially high risk of being interpreted by prospective clients and prospective investors in a way that is likely to be false or misleading:
> 
> - Actual performance linked to model, hypothetical, backtested, or simulated historical results;
> - Non-portable performance from a past firm linked to current ongoing results;
> - Portable performance from a past firm linked to ongoing results, when there was a break in performance between the prior firm and the current firm; and
> - Non-compliant data after the minimum effective compliance date linked to compliant data.

This linked information must not be presented in a GIPS Report.

Outside of a GIPS Report, firms may present this linked information if asked to do so by a prospective client or prospective investor. The linked information may be presented in a one-on-one presentation that is created for and will be used only by the prospective client or prospective investor.

The linked information may also be presented outside of a GIPS Report in marketing materials provided to other prospective clients or prospective investors if the following conditions are met:
- The linked information is presented in a one-on-one presentation that includes the delivery of a GIPS Report, if the corresponding GIPS Report has not been previously delivered to the prospective client or prospective investor;
- The linked information is presented only to prospective clients or prospective investors who the firm believes are sufficiently knowledgeable about investments and can understand the relevance and limitations of the track record being presented;
- There are sufficient disclosures regarding the linked information so that prospective clients and prospective investors understand that this is not a GIPS-compliant track record. Disclosure, however, does not necessarily prevent information from being false or misleading;
- The linked information is not presented if a GIPS-compliant track record is requested; and
- The linked information is not included in a consultant database.

A firm may wish to present performance for select time periods, other than the time period(s) required and recommended by the GIPS standards. For example, if the market experienced a sharp decline during the first two months of the calendar year and became more stable in March, the firm may want to show performance of its strategy from 1 January through 28 February and from 1 March through 31 December. If the performance for these select time periods is presented in addition to the performance for the required time periods, it may be presented in a GIPS Report. This is permitted because the select time periods are being presented in addition to the required time periods. To present only performance for the select time periods without performance for the required time periods, especially if the select time periods were chosen because the periods had the highest performance, would be misleading and is not permitted for firms that claim compliance with the GIPS standards. Firms may present performance for select time periods outside of GIPS Reports with the appropriate disclosure and labeling.

The firm may provide to a prospective client or prospective investor any information requested by that prospective client or prospective investor. Such information must be restricted to a one-on-one presentation for use with that specific prospective client or prospective investor and must be accompanied by comprehensive disclosures that explain the information being presented. A one-on-one presentation is not limited to a formal presentation or to information presented in a face-to-face meeting. A one-on-one presentation refers to a presentation that is created for and will be used only by the prospective client or prospective investor who made the request.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions