---
tags: []
---
Links: [[1. Fundamentals of Compliance]]
___
# 1.A.3
## Standard for Firms
To initially claim compliance with the GIPS standards, the FIRM MUST attain compliance for a minimum of five years or for the period since the FIRM inception if the FIRM has been in existence for less than five years.
## Discussion
A firm cannot initially claim compliance with the GIPS standards until it meets the applicable requirements of the GIPS standards for at least a five-year period, or since inception of the firm if the firm has been in existence for less than five years. Being in compliance for a minimum five-year period, or since inception if less than five years, means that for this period, the firm has complied with all applicable requirements of the GIPS standards, including any Guidance Statements, interpretations, and Questions & Answers (Q&As) published by CFA Institute and the GIPS standards governing bodies.

Assuming a firm initially attains compliance for the minimum five-year period, and the firm is presenting time-weighted returns (TWRs) in a GIPS Report, it is required to present five years of GIPS-compliant performance, or performance since inception of the composite or pooled fund if it has been in existence less than five years. The ability to present five years of GIPS-compliant performance does not mean, however, that the firm is able to claim compliance with the GIPS standards. The firm must fulfill all of the requirements of the GIPS standards for at least the initial five-year period or since inception if the firm has been in existence for less than five years, not simply the requirements relating to the presentation of performance in a GIPS Report. If a firm initially claims compliance for a longer period than five years, the firm must present a track record for the entire period of time for which it claims compliance, or for at least 10 years if the firm claims compliance for a period longer than 10 years.

If a firm is presenting money-weighted returns (MWRs) in a GIPS Report, it is required to present only one return: the annualized since-inception MWR of the composite or pooled fund through the most recent annual period end. The number of years included in this since-inception MWR will depend on the length of time for which the composite or pooled fund has been in existence as of the most recent annual period end. Regardless of the period encompassed in this since-inception money-weighted return, the firm cannot claim compliance with the GIPS standards until it has fulfilled all of the requirements of the GIPS standards, including but not limited to all of the input data and calculation requirements, for a full five-year period or since inception of the composite or pooled fund if the composite or pooled fund has been in existence for less than five years. If the composite or pooled fund has been in existence for longer than five years but the firm is initially claiming compliance with the GIPS standards for the minimum five-year period, the firm is still required to present the since-inception MWR since the composite or pooled fund inception date – not only for the period for which the firm claims compliance with the GIPS standards.

Once a firm has claimed compliance for a five-year period, or since inception of the firm if the firm has existed for less than 5 years, the firm must include in GIPS Reports an additional year of performance each year, building up to a minimum of 10 years of GIPS-compliant performance. Although a firm is required to present only 10 years of performance in a GIPS Report when it is presenting TWRs, it is recommended that firms present more than 10 years of performance in a GIPS Report.

Consider the following examples of time periods required to be presented when first claiming compliance with the GIPS standards and TWRs are presented.

> [!EXAMPLE] Example 1
> 
> A firm has been in existence since 1 January 2011 and wishes to claim compliance starting with GIPS Reports for periods ending 31 December 2020. The firm decides to attain compliance for the minimum five-year period and chooses to present performance on a calendar-year basis.
> 
> The firm must comply with all applicable requirements of the GIPS standards on a firm-wide basis for an initial five-year period, in this case from 1 January 2016 through 31 December 2020. The firm must prepare GIPS Reports that include five years of GIPS-compliant performance in its first GIPS Reports for all composites or limited distribution pooled funds (LDPFs) that have a track record of at least five years. For all composites or LDPFs that have a track record of less than five years, the firm must present a since-inception track record. The firm must then continue to add one year of additional performance to its GIPS Reports each year, building to a minimum of 10 years of GIPS-compliant performance for each of its GIPS Reports.

> [!EXAMPLE] Example 2
> A firm has been in existence since 2013 and wishes to claim compliance starting in 2020. For various reasons, the firm can create a GIPS-compliant track record only beginning 1 January 2017.
> 
> The firm may not claim compliance with the GIPS standards until it can present five years of GIPS-compliant performance. In this case, the firm must wait one more year until it has GIPS-compliant returns from 2017 through 2021. Only then can the firm claim compliance with the GIPS standards.

> [!EXAMPLE] Example 3
> A firm has been in existence for two years and has two years of performance through 31 December 2019.	
> 
> If a firm has been in existence for less than five years, the firm may initially claim compliance for the period since the firm’s inception. The firm must present performance since the composite or pooled fund inception date and then build to a minimum of 10 years of GIPS-compliant performance. In this case, the firm may claim compliance with the GIPS standards with two years of GIPS-compliant performance (2018 and 2019) and add an additional year each year until it reaches a minimum of 10 years of compliant performance. A firm is not required to present a track record longer than 10 years but is recommended to do so.

> [!EXAMPLE] Example 4
> A firm has been in existence for less than one year and has no annual composite or pooled fund returns to report.
> 
> The firm may claim compliance with the GIPS standards as soon as it meets all of the applicable requirements of the GIPS standards and has performance to report. If the firm is less than 12 months old, it is permitted to present since-inception performance in GIPS Reports for its composites and/or pooled funds and claim compliance with the GIPS standards.
> 
> Returns for periods of less than one year must not be annualized.

## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions