---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 1.A.15
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM may provide a GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT or a GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT that includes the [[BROAD DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND]] to [[BROAD DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND]] PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS but is not REQUIRED to do so.
## Discussion
A broad distribution pooled fund (BDPF) is a pooled fund that is regulated under a framework that would permit the general public to purchase or hold the pooled fund’s shares and is not exclusively offered in one-on-one presentations. (More extensive guidance on the classification of a pooled fund as a BDPF can be found in the discussion of Provision [[1.A.13]].) BDPFs are typically highly regulated. Because of both the complexity and diversity of local laws and regulations applying to BDPFs, which typically specify what must be included in the materials for these funds, as well as what must not be included, it is not required that a GIPS Report be provided to BDPF prospective investors. If a firm wishes to provide a GIPS Pooled Fund Report or GIPS Composite Report that includes the BDPF to a BDPF prospective investor, however, it may do so.

Because a firm that manages and markets only BDPFs is not required to provide a GIPS Report to pooled fund prospective investors, if such a firm complies with the GIPS standards, a claim of compliance with the GIPS standards might not appear in any of its materials. If the firm wishes to present a claim of compliance with the GIPS standards to prospective investors, the claim of compliance may appear in a:
- GIPS Advertisement,
- GIPS Pooled Fund Report, or
- GIPS Composite Report for a composite that includes the BDPF.

The claim of compliance may also appear on the firm’s website by including a GIPS Advertisement, or the website itself can adhere to the GIPS Advertising Guidelines. A claim of compliance may also appear in a GIPS Report that is posted on the firm’s website.

Because the 2010 edition of the GIPS standards required all portfolios, both segregated accounts and pooled funds, to be included in a composite, many firms had included BDPFs and LDPFs in composites that included only one or more pooled funds. The 2020 edition of the GIPS standards does not require a firm to include a pooled fund in a composite unless the pooled fund is managed in a strategy that is managed for or offered as a segregated account, or the pooled fund meets a composite definition. When a firm adopts the 2020 edition of the GIPS standards, the firm may terminate any composite that contains only pooled funds whose strategy is not offered as a segregated account. However, a firm that wishes to continue to include pooled funds in composites that include only one or more pooled funds, even though the strategy of the pooled funds is not offered as a segregated account, may continue to do so.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions