---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 1.A.21
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST correct MATERIAL ERRORS in GIPS POOLED FUND REPORTS and MUST:
- Provide the corrected GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT to the current verifier.
- Provide the corrected GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT to current investors and any former verifiers that received the GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT that had the MATERIAL ERROR.
- Make every reasonable effort to provide the corrected GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT to all current PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS that received the GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT that had the MATERIAL ERROR. The FIRM is not REQUIRED to provide a corrected GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT to former investors or former PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS.
## Discussion
Firms claiming compliance with the GIPS standards are likely to face situations in which errors are discovered that must be specifically addressed. Even with the tightest of controls, errors will occur. An error, which can be qualitative or quantitative, is any component of a GIPS Pooled Fund Report that is missing or inaccurate. Errors in GIPS Pooled Fund Reports can result from, but are not limited to, incorrect, incomplete, or missing:
- pooled fund returns or assets,
- firm assets,
- benchmark returns, and
- disclosures.

Firms must establish error correction policies, and materiality must be defined in the error correction policies.

If a GIPS Pooled Fund Report contains a material error, the GIPS Pooled Fund Report must be corrected and the corrected GIPS Pooled Fund Report that includes a disclosure of the error must be provided to the current verifier, as well as to all current investors and any former verifiers that received the GIPS Pooled Fund Report with the material error. Former verifiers that received the GIPS Pooled Fund Report with the material error must receive the corrected GIPS Pooled Fund Report with a disclosure of the error in case the error affects a previously issued verification report or performance examination report. The firm must also make every reasonable effort to provide the corrected GIPS Pooled Fund Report to all current prospective investors that received the GIPS Pooled Fund Report with the material error. The firm is not required to provide the corrected GIPS Pooled Fund Report to former prospective investors that received the GIPS Pooled Fund Report that contained the material error.

The firm generally has three options for dealing with non-material errors in GIPS Pooled Fund Reports:
1. _Take no action._  
    - The error is deemed immaterial and does not require a change to any data or disclosures in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report.
2. _Correct the GIPS Pooled Fund Report with no disclosure of the change and no distribution of the corrected GIPS Pooled Fund Report._  
    - The correction of the error results in a change to one or more items in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report, but these changes are deemed not material and therefore do not require disclosure of the change or distribution of the corrected GIPS Pooled Fund Report.
3. _Correct the GIPS Pooled Fund Report with disclosure of the change and no distribution of the corrected GIPS Pooled Fund Report._  
    - The correction of the error results in a change to one or more items in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report, but these changes are deemed not material. The firm does not distribute the corrected GIPS Pooled Fund Report but, according to the firm’s pre-established error correction policies and procedures, the error does require disclosure in the corrected GIPS Pooled Fund Report.

A firm must decide what criteria it will use to determine materiality. The following is a definition of materiality that firms might find useful as a starting point:
- An error (or item) is material if the magnitude of the omission or misstatement of performance presentation information, in light of surrounding circumstances, makes it probable that the judgment of a reasonable person relying on the information would have been changed by the omission or misstatement.

When determining materiality, a firm may consider the following factors:
- magnitude of the error, in absolute and relative terms,
- whether the error is material relative to the benchmark,
- whether returns are overstated or understated,
- significance of the missing or incorrect disclosures,
- whether the error affects returns over time or is a timing issue,
- period(s) affected by the error,
- if these policies will be applied firm-wide or on a composite-specific or pooled fund-specific basis, and
- whether the firm has any legal or regulatory obligations related to error correction.

The size and effect of the error may vary for different asset types (e.g., equities, fixed income, emerging market equities), reporting periods (e.g., monthly, quarterly, or annual returns), and by time period (e.g., prior to a specific date, more than five years ago).

It is important to remember that the omission of required information is considered an error, as well as a misstatement in the information presented. The GIPS Pooled Fund Report must be corrected to include the required information, and the firm must apply its error correction policies to determine if the error is material.

Firms must establish and document error correction policies and procedures and must implement them consistently. A firm should strive to create an unambiguous process that includes specific steps to discover errors.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions