---
tags: []
---
Links: [[1. Fundamentals of Compliance]]
___
# 1.A.34
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM acquires another firm or affiliation, the FIRM has one year to bring any non-compliant assets into compliance. Assets of the acquired non-compliant firm or affiliation MUST meet all the REQUIREMENTS of the GIPS standards within one year of the acquisition date, on a going forward basis.
## Discussion
The GIPS standards recognize the difficulties that firms encounter when transferring assets from one firm to another or when merging two firms. Similar to the idea of allowing a firm time to invest new portfolios before adding them to composites, in the case of an acquisition or merger, the GIPS standards permit a one-year grace period to bring the assets of a newly acquired or merged non-compliant firm into compliance with the GIPS standards. Assets of the non-compliant firm must meet all the requirements of the GIPS standards, on a going forward basis, as of the first full reporting period one year after the acquisition date.

The one-year grace period begins on the effective acquisition date – the date on which the acquirer obtains control of the acquired firm. The effective date of a merger typically depends on the date on which certain legal documents are filed. During the one-year grace period, the acquired assets are included in total firm assets, although not all assets managed by the compliant firm are in compliance with the GIPS standards because of the acquisition or merger. The compliant firm may continue to claim compliance with the GIPS standards, however.

The compliant firm must disclose all significant events that would help prospective clients and investors interpret the GIPS Report. An acquisition of or merger with another firm would normally be considered a significant event.

> [!EXAMPLE] Example Timeline for the Grace Period:
> - Acquisition date: 15 July 2018
> - End of grace period, one year after the acquisition date: 15 July 2019
> - First full reporting period one year after the acquisition date: August 2019

In this example, assuming the firm calculates composites using monthly portfolio returns, the firm would need to include all acquired portfolios in composites no later 1 August 2019. Note, however, that if the firm does not construct the composite retroactive to the acquisition date, a break in the track record will occur and the firm will be unable to link to the prior firm track record.

A firm is not required to but may decide to port a track record from an acquired firm at any point in the future, as long as the portability requirements are met. (Please see Provisions [[1.A.32]] and [[1.A.33]] for portability requirements.) There is no specific end-date by which all track records from the non-compliant acquired firm must be ported. A firm may decide to port a track record from an acquired firm at any point in the future, as long as the portability requirements are met.

The following is an example of the one-year grace period for a firm that is compliant with the GIPS standards that acquires a firm that is not compliant with the GIPS standards.

> [!EXAMPLE]+
> Coastire Capital Management, a firm that complies with the GIPS standards, acquires Fanglobe Investment Advisors on 15 July 2018. Fanglobe does not comply with the GIPS standards. Coastire completes the task of having all of Fanglobe’s assets in compliance with the GIPS standards by 15 July 2019, the end of the one-year grace period. When Coastire calculates monthly performance for August 2019, all performance is in compliance with the GIPS standards.
> 
> Although Coastire has satisfied the requirements of the one-year grace period by having all of the firm’s assets in compliance with the GIPS standards for reporting periods beginning on and after 15 July 2019, Fanglobe’s assets for periods prior to 15 July 2019 are not in compliance with the GIPS standards. After several months, Coastire determines that it would like to port two track records from the acquired firm – a track record for Fanglobe’s mid-cap value strategy, which has 6 years of history, and a track record for Fanglobe’s large-cap value strategy, which has 13 years of history. Both track records meet the portability requirements.
> 
> Coastire may bring the historical assets of Fanglobe into compliance with the GIPS standards at any time in the future and may then port the two track records. Both track records, however, must be based on all of Fanglobe’s portfolios managed in the respective strategies and not on a subset of portfolios. If Coastire ports the track record for Fanglobe’s mid-cap value strategy, it must create a mid-cap value composite and port at least 5 of the 6 years of history, if possible. If Coastire ports the track record for Fanglobe’s large-cap value strategy, it must create a large-cap value composite and port at least 5 of the 13 years of history, if possible.

Note that to be able to port the two track records from Fanglobe, the composites on which the track records are based must meet all of the requirements for composite construction and input data. For example, Coastire must be able to prove that all fee-paying discretionary portfolios that meet the composite definition for the mid-cap value strategy and large-cap value strategy have been included in the respective composites. To create a continuous composite history, Coastire must also create a composite history for these strategies from the acquisition date of 15 July 2018 through 31 July 2019.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions