---
tags: []
---
Links: [[1. Fundamentals of Compliance]]
___
# 1.A.2
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST be defined as an investment firm, subsidiary, or division held out to the public as a [[DISTINCT BUSINESS ENTITY]].

## Discussion
It is the firm’s responsibility to ensure that the definition of the firm is appropriate, rational, and fair, reflecting the way the firm is held out to the public. A firm’s definition will take into account the specific circumstances of the firm and must reflect how it is held out to current and prospective clients or current and prospective pooled fund investors as a distinct business entity. A distinct business entity is a unit, division, department, or office that is organizationally and functionally segregated from other units, divisions, departments, or offices and that retains discretion over the assets it manages. The business entity should have autonomy over the investment decision-making process.

Possible criteria that can be used to determine what constitutes a distinct business entity include, but are not limited to, the following:

- being a legal entity,
- having a distinct market or client type (e.g., institutional, retail, or private client), and
- using a separate and distinct investment process.

It would be inappropriate for an organization to establish a business entity solely for GIPS compliance purposes unless the entity will be consistently held out to the investing public as an autonomous business unit through the firm’s marketing efforts and other communications with the investing public. The separate business entity should be identified on the organization’s website and in other forms of marketing communications, not solely in GIPS Reports.

The GIPS standards recommend that the firm adopt the broadest, most meaningful definition of the firm. The scope of this definition should include all geographic (country, regional, etc.) offices operating under the same brand name, if all of these offices together are held out to the public as a distinct business entity, regardless of the actual name of the individual investment management company. In some cases, however, it may be appropriate to define the firm based on geographic location if each location is held out to the public as a distinct business entity (e.g., the London office of ABC Firm). It may also be appropriate to have multiple defined firms that use the same brand name if each defined firm is managed separately and operates independently or if each firm serves distinctly different client types. A firm must not use a narrow definition of the firm simply to reduce the scope of work required to achieve and maintain compliance with the GIPS standards.

There may be changes within a defined firm, such as those resulting from a corporate restructuring or merger and acquisition activities, that cause a firm to reconsider the definition of the firm. When such a change occurs, the firm must determine which scenario applies:

- The change is so substantial that it is essentially a new firm, and there is no continuation of the track record;
- The change is material enough to warrant a disclosure of the change, but there is a continuation of the track record; or
- No change in the firm definition is necessary.

The following are examples of how a firm may be defined.

- Example 1:

A firm consists of two legal entities. The two legal entities are held out to prospective clients and prospective investors as one business entity, and the firm definition states the following:

“For the purpose of complying with the GIPS® standards, the firm is defined as all assets managed by Treetown Investment Management, LLC and Treetown Investment Management, Inc., together Treetown Investment Management.”

If Treetown Investment Management, LLC, and Treetown Investment Management, Inc. were each held out to prospective clients and prospective investors as a distinct business entity, each legal entity could be defined as a separate firm for the purpose of complying with the GIPS standards.

- Example 2:

A legal entity has a division serving institutional clients and a division serving wrap fee clients. Each division is managed autonomously, and each has a distinct client type. The legal entity’s marketing department decides that these two divisions of the firm will begin to use the same brand, regardless of client type, because of the significant cost savings in promoting a single brand.

Each division of the entity serves a distinctly different client type. The firm may define the institutional division and the wrap fee division as separate firms for the purposes of GIPS compliance if it wishes to do so, even if both divisions are operating under the same brand. However, the two firms must be consistently held out to that public as distinct business entities and be clearly defined to avoid potential confusion, particularly if one of the firms claims compliance with the GIPS standards but the other does not. A non-compliant firm must not receive any inappropriate benefit from a related firm’s claim of compliance.

- Example 3:

A parent corporation has three divisions: one serving Asia, one serving the United States, and one serving Europe. Each division uses a similar investment process.

The decision regarding how to define the firm must consider each division’s characteristics. If each division is held out to the public as a distinct business entity, is organizationally and functionally segregated from the other divisions, and retains discretion over the assets it manages, the parent corporation may define each division as a separate firm for the purposes of GIPS compliance. Alternatively, if all of these divisions are held out to the public as a single business entity, the firm should be defined as a single firm that includes all three divisions.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions