---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 1.A.39
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM chooses to be verified, it MUST gain an understanding of the verifier’s policies for maintaining independence and MUST consider the verifier’s assessment of independence.
## Discussion
Verification is a process by which a verification firm (verifier) conducts testing of a firm on a firmwide basis, in accordance with the required verification procedures of the GIPS Standards for Verifiers. Verification provides assurance on whether the firm’s policies and procedures related to composite and pooled fund maintenance, as well as the calculation, presentation, and distribution of performance, have been designed in compliance with the GIPS standards and have been implemented on a firm-wide basis. Crucial to the verification process is the assumption by all interested parties that the verifier performs its service in an unbiased manner and is not testing its own work. Therefore, verification must be performed by an independent third party. If a firm chooses to be verified, the firm must understand the verifier’s policies for ensuring that the verifier is independent from the firm. To do so, the firm should obtain a summary of the verifier’s policies for ensuring independence and should have sufficient discussions with the verifier to understand the policies.

Although a firm is not responsible for a verifier’s independence assessment, the firm must understand the issues encountered and the conclusions reached by the verifier regarding independence from the firm, particularly when the verifier provides other GIPS-compliance related services. This understanding is important because the firm may have knowledge that the verifier does not have. The firm is obligated to inform the verifier if the firm believes that the verifier missed some factor in its independence assessment or if the firm believes the assessment is incorrect.

When considering verifier independence, both the firm and the verifier must keep in mind the following question: If a prospective client or prospective investor of the firm relies on the fact that the firm has been verified, could the prospective client’s or prospective investor’s perception of the verification’s value potentially change if the prospective client or prospective investor knew about other existing relationships between the firm and the verifier? A firm must gain enough of an understanding of the verifier’s policies and procedures for maintaining independence to lead to a strong answer of “no” to this question.

The firm’s understanding of the verifier’s policies and procedures for maintaining independence is not a one-time event. It is an ongoing process and must be performed in connection with each verification engagement.

It may be helpful for both the verifier and the firm to consider independence as a continuum.

At one extreme of the continuum is a verifier that has no other relationships with the firm. At the other extreme is a verifier with existing relationships and independence issues with the firm that cannot be resolved, such that the verifier cannot conduct the engagement because independence cannot be achieved. The firm and the verifier must determine where their relationship lies on this continuum and whether it is appropriate to proceed with the verification engagement.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions