---
tags: []
---
Links: [[1. Fundamentals of Compliance]]
___
# 1.A.5
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST:
- Document its policies and procedures used in establishing and maintaining compliance with the REQUIREMENTS of the GIPS standards, as well as any RECOMMENDATIONS it has chosen to adopt, and apply them consistently.
- Create policies and procedures to monitor and identify changes and additions to all of the Guidance Statements, interpretations, and Q&As published by CFA Institute and the GIPS standards governing bodies.
## Discussion
Policies and procedures are essential to implementing adequate business controls at all stages of the investment performance process – from data input to preparing marketing materials – to ensure the validity of the claim of compliance. A firm must document all of the policies and procedures it follows for meeting the requirements of the GIPS standards, as well as any recommendations the firm has chosen to adopt. There is no requirement to create and document policies and procedures to comply with requirements that do not apply to the firm. However, firms must actively make a determination about the applicability of all the requirements of the GIPS standards and document their policies and procedures accordingly.

Once a firm establishes its policies and procedures, it must apply them consistently. Policies and procedures should be reviewed regularly to determine if they should be changed or improved, but it is not expected that they will change frequently. A firm must not change a policy retroactively solely to enhance performance or to present the firm in a better light. Retroactive changes to policies and procedures should be avoided.

Firms must also create policies and procedures to monitor and identify changes and additions to all of the Guidance Statements, interpretations, Q&As, and any other guidance published by CFA Institute and the GIPS standards governing bodies. A firm should assign at least one person internally who is responsible for monitoring its compliance with the GIPS standards. Depending on the firm’s size and complexity, it might have a team of people responsible for GIPS compliance, and maintaining compliance may require coordination across multiple departments, including but not limited to operations, performance, compliance, and marketing.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions