---
tags: []
---
Links: [[1. Fundamentals of Compliance]]
___
# 1.A.26
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM is responsible for its claim of compliance with the GIPS standards and MUST ensure that the records and information provided by any third party on which the FIRM relies meet the REQUIREMENTS of the GIPS standards.
## Discussion
A firm that claims compliance with the GIPS standards is responsible for its claim of compliance. Therefore, a firm that uses a third party to provide any service (e.g., custody or performance measurement), and relies on that service, must ensure that the records and information provided by the third-party service provider meet the requirements of the GIPS standards. The firm is responsible for ensuring that the data received from various external sources is accurate and must be able to aggregate any information supplied by external service providers as needed. A firm should carefully research any third-party service provider and should engage only reputable service providers.

It is acknowledged that, in some cases, it may be challenging to obtain information from a third party that meets the requirements of the GIPS standards. A firm has the option of bringing performance in house rather than relying on a third party. A firm can also make adjustments to the information provided by a third party so that it meets the requirements of the GIPS standards. For example, if a firm received composite data from a third party, and the third party weighted portfolio returns by ending value instead of beginning value, the firm could weight the returns itself using beginning-of-period values to calculate composite returns. As another example, suppose that a custodian reflects interest income on a cash basis. The firm may make adjustments to the income information from the custodian to properly reflect accrued income.

When using third-party service providers, firms are encouraged to ensure that adequate service-level agreements are in place to provide the historical records necessary, both currently and as needed in the future. It may be helpful to partner with custodians, administrators, prime brokers, and investment managers that understand what is needed to comply with the GIPS standards.

Firms must establish policies and procedures to ensure that third-party information, such as the information provided by a custodian or an underlying external manager, adheres to the requirements of the GIPS standards, if the firm relies on that information. A thorough examination of third-party service providers’ policies and procedures should be conducted when they are hired. It is recommended that firms that claim compliance with the GIPS standards conduct periodic testing or other monitoring procedures that ensure that the policies and procedures of any third-party service provider on which the firm relies have not changed since the service provider was first hired and are being applied consistently and appropriately.

Finally, this provision does not require a firm to “look through” net asset value ([[NAV]]) valuations of pooled funds that are investments in a portfolio. Firms may rely on NAVs of pooled funds that reflect the fund’s tradable value and use that as the pooled fund’s fair value.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions