---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: 
___
# 1.A.4
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST comply with all applicable REQUIREMENTS of the GIPS standards, including any Guidance Statements, interpretations, and Questions & Answers (Q&As) published by CFA Institute and the GIPS standards governing bodies.
## Discussion
The GIPS standards are ethical standards for investment performance presentation to ensure fair representation and full disclosure of a firm’s performance. Firms must comply with all requirements of the GIPS standards that apply to the firm, including requirements found within the provisions of the GIPS standards as well as within any Guidance Statements, interpretations, and Questions & Answers (Q&As) published by CFA Institute and the GIPS standards governing bodies. Firms must also comply with all updates and clarifications published by these entities. Firms must review all of the provisions and other requirements of the GIPS standards to determine each requirement’s applicability.

The GIPS standards must be applied with the objectives of fair representation and full disclosure of investment performance. Meeting the objectives of fair representation and full disclosure will likely require compliance with more than the minimum requirements of the GIPS standards. If a firm applies the GIPS standards in a performance situation that is not addressed specifically by the GIPS standards or is open to interpretation, disclosures other than those required by the GIPS standards may be necessary. To fully explain the performance included in a GIPS Report, firms are encouraged to present all relevant information, beyond required and recommended information, that will help a prospective client or prospective investor understand the information presented. Firms are also encouraged to adopt the recommendations included in the GIPS standards.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions