---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 1.A.11
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST make every reasonable effort to provide a GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT to all PROSPECTIVE CLIENTS when they initially become PROSPECTIVE CLIENTS. The FIRM MUST NOT choose to which PROSPECTIVE CLIENTS it presents a GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT.
## Discussion
Firms claiming compliance with the GIPS standards must make every reasonable effort to provide all prospective clients with a GIPS Composite Report when they initially become prospective clients. The GIPS Composite Report must be one that represents the strategy being marketed to the prospective client. The firm must not choose to which prospective clients it presents a GIPS Composite Report.

A GIPS Composite Report is defined as a presentation for a composite that contains all the information required by the GIPS standards and may also include recommended information and supplemental information. It may also include other information that the firm believes would be helpful to interpreting the GIPS Report. A prospective client is defined as any person or entity that has expressed interest in one of the firm’s composite strategies and qualifies to invest in the composite. Current clients may also qualify as prospective clients for any strategy that differs from their current investment strategy. Providing a GIPS Composite Report to current clients interested in a strategy different from their current strategy will help ensure that they have the information necessary to evaluate the new investment strategy and make an informed decision. Investment consultants, consultant databases, and other third parties are considered prospective clients if they represent individuals or entities that qualify as prospective clients.

It is up to the firm to establish policies and procedures for determining who is considered to be a prospective client. These include policies and procedures for determining when an interested party becomes a prospective client. An interested party becomes a prospective client when two tests are met. First, the interested party must have expressed interest in a specific composite strategy or strategies. Second, the firm must have determined that the interested party qualifies to invest in the respective composite strategy. For example, assume a firm is meeting with an interested party to introduce the firm to the interested party. At this initial meeting, the firm provides information about itself in an attempt to interest the interested party in investing with the firm. At this point, the two tests to qualify as a prospective client have not been met; therefore, the interested party is not yet a prospective client, and the firm is not obligated to provide a GIPS Composite Report. The firm should, however, communicate that it claims compliance with the GIPS standards and offer to provide a list of all composite and limited distribution pooled fund descriptions.

Once the interested party expresses interest in a specific composite strategy and the firm determines that the interested party qualifies to invest in the composite strategy, the interested party then becomes a prospective client. This is the point at which the firm must make every reasonable effort to provide the prospective client with the appropriate GIPS Composite Report, if the firm has not already provided it to the prospective client.

At times, a prospective client may ask the firm about a composite strategy that the firm does not yet manage. For example, assume a firm manages one equity and one fixed-income composite and has been meeting with a prospective client who originally was interested in (and qualified to invest in) the equity composite. The prospective client learns that the firm also manages fixed-income portfolios and inquires about a balanced strategy that blends the equity and fixed-income strategies. If the firm does not have an appropriate composite to present to the prospective client, the firm must inform the prospective client that it does not currently manage the specific style or strategy. The firm may present information regarding the hypothetical blended balanced strategy, but this must not be presented as a GIPS-compliant track record. The hypothetical blend may be included in a GIPS Report as supplemental information only if all the component composites on which the hypothetical blend is based are included in the respective GIPS Report. If a hypothetical blend based on the performance of actual component composites is presented outside of a GIPS Report, it is recommended but not required that the presentation include all the component composites on which the hypothetical blend is based.

A prospective client may request a GIPS Composite Report for a new composite for which the firm is not yet required to prepare a GIPS Composite Report. The firm may also wish to market a new composite for which a GIPS Composite Report has not yet been created. For example, a firm launches a strategy 1 June and is marketing the strategy in October. In such cases, the performance for the composite must be made available, but it is not required to be within a GIPS Composite Report. The firm must create a GIPS Composite Report for the new composite that includes performance from inception through the initial annual period end. If the prospective client for this new strategy is still a prospective client after the GIPS Composite Report is prepared with performance from composite inception through the initial annual period end, the firm must provide this GIPS Composite Report to the prospective client.

Because a firm is required to demonstrate that it made every reasonable effort to provide prospective clients with a GIPS Composite Report (see Provision [[1.A.17]]), a firm should establish policies and procedures for tracking which GIPS Composite Reports or initial partial-period performance outside of a GIPS Composite Report were provided to which prospective clients, and when. Doing so will allow a firm to determine when ongoing prospective clients must receive an updated GIPS Composite Report. (See Provision [[1.A.12]] regarding the requirement to provide an updated GIPS Composite Report to ongoing prospective clients.) It will also allow a firm to know who must receive a corrected GIPS Composite Report in cases for which the firm determines that a previously distributed GIPS Composite Report contained a material error. (See Provision [[1.A.20]].)

It is the firm’s obligation to make every reasonable effort to provide a GIPS Composite Report to prospective clients. The firm may do so by providing the GIPS Report directly to the prospective client or by providing the prospective client with an electronic link to the GIPS Report. The link provided must be a direct link to the GIPS Composite Report, however, and not simply a general link to firm information, such as a link to the firm’s website.

Firms are not limited to providing only GIPS Composite Reports to prospective clients or interested parties. Firms may present other performance or performance-related information, in addition to the GIPS Composite Report, as long as it is not false or misleading. Firms may also provide any performance or performance-related information a prospective client requests for use in a one-on-one presentation. Such information must be restricted to a one-on-one presentation for use with that specific prospective client and must be accompanied by comprehensive disclosures that explain the information being presented. A one-on-one presentation is not limited to a formal presentation or to information presented in a face-to-face meeting. In this case, the one-on-one presentation refers to the presentation that is created for and will be used only by the prospective client who made the request.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions