Links: [[8. GIPS Advertising Guidelines]]
___
# 8.F.5
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM SHOULD disclose the definition of the FIRM.
## Discussion
To claim compliance with the GIPS standards, a firm must comply with all applicable requirements of the GIPS standards on a firm-wide basis. Accordingly, the firm must determine exactly how it will be defined for the purpose of compliance. The GIPS standards require that a firm must be defined as an investment firm, subsidiary, or division held out to the public as a distinct business entity.

A distinct business entity is a unit, division, department, or office that is organizationally and functionally segregated from other units, divisions, departments, or offices, that retains discretion over the assets it manages, and that should have autonomy over the investment decision-making process.

Possible criteria that can be used to determine this status include:
- being a legal entity,
- having a distinct market or client type (e.g., institutional, retail, private client), and
- using a separate and distinct investment process.

See Provision [[1.A.2]] for a more detailed discussion of defining the firm.

Because there are often a number of closely related units or divisions within larger investment management entities, the precise definition of the firm that is presenting the performance results and would be responsible for the management of the pooled fund’s assets is important information for those who are reading the GIPS Advertisement. This provision, therefore, recommends that the firm disclose sufficient details of the entity that is presenting investment performance such that the firm is clearly identified.
### Sample Disclosure
“For the purpose of complying with the GIPS standards, the firm is defined as Firm B Institutional Investment Management, the institutional asset management division of Firm B.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions