Tags:
Links: [[8. GIPS Advertising Guidelines]]
___
# 8.F.1
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM SHOULD disclose the POOLED FUND DESCRIPTION.
## Discussion
To help a reader of a GIPS Advertisement more fully understand the pooled fund being presented, it is recommended that a firm disclose the pooled fund description in the advertisement. The pooled fund description is general information regarding the investment mandate, objective, or strategy of the pooled fund. The pooled fund description must include all key features of the pooled fund and must include enough information to allow a reader of the advertisement to understand the key characteristics of the pooled fund’s investment mandate, objective, or strategy, including:
- the material risks of the pooled fund’s strategy,
- how leverage, derivatives, and short positions may be used, if they are a material part of the strategy, and
- if illiquid investments are a material part of the strategy.

The recommended disclosure of the pooled fund description provides information about the pooled fund’s investment strategy that is intended to help a reader of the GIPS Advertisement who is reviewing a GIPS Advertisement for that pooled fund. The pooled fund description should provide sufficient information to the reader to allow them to differentiate the significant features of the pooled fund’s strategy from other strategies or pooled funds within the firm and to compare products across firms. The disclosed strategy features will likely affect both the historical and expected risk and returns. Along with the recommended disclosure of the benchmark description (see Provision [[8.F.3]]), the GIPS Advertisement will allow the reader to understand both the investment strategy employed and the benchmark against which the pooled fund’s performance is evaluated. This will help the reader to compare investments across firms.

If leverage, derivatives, and short positions may be used, and they are a material part of the strategy, this must be disclosed in the pooled fund description. Provision [[8.F.2]] recommends that the firm disclose how leverage, derivatives, and short positions have been used historically, if material. Taken together, these two recommended disclosures provide a more complete picture about the presence, use, and extent of leverage, derivatives, and short positions. When determining what would be material, the firm must consider whether the disclosure of how leverage, derivatives, and/or short positions are used and/or have been used historically is likely to affect a reader’s view of the risk involved in the pooled fund strategy. If so, the firm must consider if it would be misleading for the firm to fail to disclose their use to the reader when describing the strategy.

Generally, all investment products or strategies have some degree of inherent risk (e.g., market risk), but it is not intended that the pooled fund description identifies every risk of the strategy. Instead, firms must identify those material risks of the strategy, if any, and must disclose those risks. For example, investment concentration, correlation (or lack thereof), liquidity, and exposure to counterparties are features that may need to be included in the pooled fund description.

The key characteristics of some pooled fund strategies may change in response to market events. Firms should periodically review pooled fund descriptions to ensure they are current.

A sample list of pooled fund descriptions can be found in Appendix D: Sample Lists.

Given the abbreviated nature of an advertisement, there may be times when firms may wish to use a shorter pooled fund description in a GIPS Advertisement than the pooled fund description used in the corresponding GIPS Report. The following examples illustrate how a pooled fund description can be shortened for use in an advertisement while still conveying the essential features of the pooled fund’s strategy.
### Sample Disclosures for a Limited Distribution Pooled Fund:
Pooled Fund Description Included in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report
“The 2018 Venture Capital Fund seeks long-term capital appreciation by acquiring minority interests in early-stage technology companies. The Fund invests in technology companies in Europe, Asia Pacific, and emerging markets. European venture investments are more concentrated than in the other regions and are focused on a few high-quality companies. Exit opportunities include IPOs, trade sales, and secondary sales. Opportunities in China and India will be targeted for investment, and an allocation to Chinese high-tech will be at least 10% of the invested capital over the Fund’s life. International venture capital investments are generally illiquid and are subject to currency risk. If investment opportunities and/or exit strategies become limited, the life of the fund may be extended, and capital calls and distributions may be delayed. The Fund is benchmarked to the XYZ Venture Capital Index.”

Pooled Fund Description Included in a GIPS Advertisement
“The 2018 Venture Capital Fund invests in early-stage technology companies in Europe, Asia Pacific (with at least 10% allocation to China), and emerging markets. Exit opportunities include IPOs, trade sales, and secondary sales. International venture capital investments are generally illiquid and are subject to currency risk. If investment opportunities and/or exit strategies become limited, the life of the fund may be extended, and capital calls and distributions may be delayed. The Fund is benchmarked to the XYZ Venture Capital Index.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions