---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: [[8. GIPS Advertising Guidelines]]
___
# 8.A.6
## Standard for Firms
When [[MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURN|MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURNS]] are presented in a [[GIPS ADVERTISEMENT]], the FIRM MUST NOT present non-GIPS-compliant performance for periods ending on or after the [[MINIMUM EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE DATE]]. The FIRM may present non-GIPS-compliant performance in a [[GIPS ADVERTISEMENT]] provided that only GIPS-compliant performance is presented for periods ending on or after the [[MINIMUM EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE DATE]].
## Discussion
The minimum effective compliance date is the date after which only GIPS-compliant performance may be presented by a firm in GIPS Advertisements. For money-weighted returns, the firm must not present non-GIPS-compliant performance for periods ending on or after the minimum effective compliance date. Most composites and pooled funds have a minimum effective compliance date of 1 January 2000. For these composites and pooled funds, performance for periods ending on or after 1 January 2000 that does not comply with the GIPS standards must not be presented as part of a GIPS Advertisement. Real estate and private equity composites and pooled funds have a minimum effective compliance date of 1 January 2006. For these composites and pooled funds, performance for periods ending on or after 1 January 2006 that does not comply with the GIPS standards must not be presented in a GIPS Advertisement. For any performance presented for periods ended prior to the minimum effective compliance date that does not comply with the GIPS standards in a GIPS Advertisement, firms must disclose the periods of non-compliance.

The measurement period for a since-inception money-weighted return (MWR) is the period from the inception date of the composite or pooled fund through the end of the period that is being reported. The beginning date remains constant and the ending date is extended as the measurement period becomes longer. The period-end date will determine what is a compliant time period for GIPS Advertisement purposes.

The inception date is always incorporated into a since-inception MWR in contrast to a time-weighted return (TWR), which does not necessarily incorporate since-inception results. It could be argued that the since-inception basis of MWR reporting would mean that any period of historical non-compliance could make the current period also non-compliant because the current calculation includes inputs from periods for which the firm did not claim compliance with the GIPS standards. This is not the case, however – a firm may present returns that use inputs (i.e., cash flows) from periods for which the firm did not claim compliance as long as the inputs meet any applicable requirements of the GIPS standards. Daily external cash flows must be used within any GIPS-compliant since-inception MWR calculation as of 1 January 2020. Prior to 1 January 2020, quarterly or more-frequent external cash flows must be used.

Firms are reminded that they must comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding the calculation and presentation of performance and they must not present performance or performance-related information that is false or misleading.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions