---
tags: []
---
Links: [[8. GIPS Advertising Guidelines]]
___
# 8.A.5
## Standard for Firms
When [[TIME-WEIGHTED RETURN|TIME-WEIGHTED RETURNS]] are presented in a [[GIPS ADVERTISEMENT]], the FIRM MUST NOT [[LINK]] non-GIPS-compliant performance for periods beginning on or after the [[MINIMUM EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE DATE]] to GIPS-compliant performance. The FIRM may [[LINK]] non-GIPS-compliant performance to GIPS-compliant performance in a [[GIPS ADVERTISEMENT]] provided that only GIPS-compliant performance is presented for periods beginning on or after the [[MINIMUM EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE DATE]].
## Discussion
The minimum effective compliance date is the date after which only GIPS-compliant performance may be presented in GIPS Advertisements. When presenting time-weighted returns in a GIPS Advertisement, the firm must not link non-GIPS-compliant performance for periods beginning on or after the minimum effective compliance date to GIPS-compliant performance. Most composites and pooled funds have a minimum effective compliance date of 1 January 2000. Therefore, for these composites and pooled funds, performance for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2000 that does not comply with the GIPS standards must not be presented as part of a GIPS Advertisement.

Real estate and private equity composites and pooled funds and wrap fee composites have a different minimum effective compliance date of 1 January 2006. For these composites and pooled funds, performance for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006 that does not comply with the GIPS standards must not be presented in a GIPS Advertisement.

The GIPS standards allow firms to link non-GIPS-compliant performance to the composite’s or pooled fund’s GIPS-compliant history in a GIPS Advertisement provided that only GIPS-compliant performance is presented for periods beginning on or after the minimum effective compliance date. Firms are reminded, however, that they must comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding the calculation and presentation of performance. Firms that manage broad distribution pooled funds (BDPFs) are typically required by laws or regulations to present the BDPF’s performance for specified periods in the advertisement. These required performance periods may include periods for which the firm does not claim compliance with the GIPS standards. A firm that claims compliance with the GIPS standards may, therefore, link non-GIPS-compliant performance for any period to GIPS-compliant performance in a GIPS Advertisement when calculating returns that are required by laws or regulations to be presented for a BDPF’s advertisement, as well as in any other materials outside of a GIPS Advertisement or GIPS Report in which the firm is required to present such information. However, if a firm chooses to prepare a GIPS Pooled Fund Report for a BDPF, the firm must consider the minimum effective compliance date. See Provision [[1.A.29]]. The firm must also disclose any conflict with the GIPS standards or GIPS Advertising Guidelines. See Provision [[8.G.15]].
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions