---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: [[8. GIPS Advertising Guidelines]]
___
# 8.A.11
## Standard for Firms
BENCHMARK returns included in a [[GIPS ADVERTISEMENT]] MUST be TOTAL RETURNS.
## Discussion
Because the GIPS standards require that benchmark returns presented in a GIPS Advertisement be total returns, a price-only index would not satisfy the requirements of the GIPS Advertising Guidelines. This also applies to benchmarks that are components of a blended benchmark.

A price-only benchmark may be presented in a GIPS Advertisement only if it is presented in addition to a total return benchmark. It must be labeled as a price-only benchmark, and there must be sufficient disclosures so that a prospective client or prospective investor understands the difference between the return of a price-only benchmark and the return of a total return benchmark. Firms must not present only a price-only benchmark in a GIPS Advertisement, even if no appropriate total return benchmark is available for a specific composite or pooled fund. If a firm determines that no appropriate benchmark for the composite or pooled fund exists, it must not present a benchmark.

Some benchmarks may appear to be price-only benchmarks because they do not include income, but they should be considered total return benchmarks. These include the following:

- public market equivalent (PME) benchmarks,
- commodity benchmarks, and similar benchmarks, that do not have income because of the nature of the benchmark constituents, and
- target returns, such as an 8% hurdle rate.

The public market equivalent (PME) is a method in which a public market index is used to create a comparable money-weighted return (MWR) from a series of cash flows that replicate those of the pooled fund or composite and that can be compared with the MWR of the pooled fund or composite. When the firm uses a PME, the market index used must be a total return benchmark.

The benchmark presented in the GIPS Advertisement must be consistent with the benchmark presented in the corresponding GIPS Composite Report or GIPS Pooled Fund Report. If more than one benchmark is included in the corresponding GIPS Composite Report or GIPS Pooled Fund Report, the firm should consider whether multiple benchmarks should be presented in the GIPS Advertisement.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions