---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: [[8. GIPS Advertising Guidelines]]
___
# 8.A.3
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST maintain all data and information necessary to support all items included in a GIPS ADVERTISEMENT.
## Discussion
A fundamental principle of the GIPS standards is the need for firms to be able to ensure the validity of their claim of compliance. It is, therefore, important for current and prospective clients and investors, verifiers, and regulators to have confidence that all items included in a GIPS Advertisement are supported by the appropriate records.

Firms must maintain records to be able to recalculate their performance history, as well as substantiate all other information included in a GIPS Advertisement, for all periods shown. This requirement applies to all periods for which performance is presented in the GIPS Advertisement. This requirement is consistent with the regulatory requirements of many countries. In some jurisdictions, however, regulators require records to be kept for longer periods than those required by the GIPS standards. Care should be taken to ensure that the firm follows the strictest of the recordkeeping requirements applicable to the firm.

It is understood that the required data may not be immediately available. For example, data may need to be retrieved from an offsite location or from a third-party service provider. However, the data and information required to be maintained by this provision must be available in a usable format within a reasonable time frame. In all instances, either paper (hard-copy) records or electronically stored records will suffice. If records are stored electronically, the records must be accessible and able to be printed or downloaded, if needed. Records stored in a system that is not operable and from which data cannot be retrieved will not satisfy the recordkeeping requirements.

Please refer to Provision [[1.A.25]] for more information about the records required to be retained to support a GIPS Advertisement.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions