---
tags: []
---
Links: [[5. Composite Money-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 5.D.8
## Standard for Firms
When using [[BENCHMARK|BENCHMARKS]] that have limitations, such as peer group [[BENCHMARK|BENCHMARKS]], the FIRM SHOULD disclose these limitations.
## Discussion
Firms must determine which benchmark(s) are most appropriate for composite(s). When determining which benchmarks to present in a GIPS Composite Report, firms should be guided by the ethical spirit of the GIPS standards.

Some benchmarks with known limitations are often used for certain types of investments. For example, peer group benchmarks, such as hedge fund peer group universe indices, are often used for hedge funds and other alternative investment strategies. Although peer group benchmarks are frequently used to evaluate hedge funds, there are some common problems with hedge fund peer group benchmarks, including the following:
- self-reporting bias (only some hedge funds choose to report performance data),
- survivorship bias (historical returns of closed hedge funds are removed from the peer group benchmark),
- inability to obtain returns for the same periods as the composite, and
- lack of investability (some hedge funds within a peer group benchmark are closed to new investors).

When using benchmarks that exhibit limitations, firms should describe these limitations in the relevant GIPS Composite Report. This helps prospective clients understand the nature of the benchmark and be aware of any known drawbacks in comparing the risk and return of the benchmark and composite.
### Sample Disclosure:
“The benchmark is the Hedge Fund Aggregate Multi-Style Index, which includes more than 100 hedge funds of various styles and strategies. Because this index is based on the data self-reported by the constituent funds, it may have a self-reporting bias. In addition, some funds are closed to new investors and are no longer investable. We believe that no better index exists as a comparison for this composite.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions