---
tags: []
---
Links: [[8. GIPS Advertising Guidelines]]
___
# 8.C.1
## Standard for Firms
If TIME-WEIGHTED RETURNS are presented in the corresponding [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]], the FIRM MUST present [[COMPOSITE]] TOTAL RETURNS according to one of the following:
- One-, three-, and five-year annualized [[COMPOSITE]] returns through the most recent period. If the [[COMPOSITE]] has been in existence for less than five years, the FIRM MUST also present the annualized return since the [[COMPOSITE INCEPTION DATE]].
- The period-to-date [[COMPOSITE]] return in addition to one-, three-, and five-year annualized composite returns through the same period as presented in the corresponding [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]]. If the [[COMPOSITE]] has been in existence for less than five years, the FIRM MUST also present the annualized return since the [[COMPOSITE INCEPTION DATE]].
- The period-to-date [[COMPOSITE]] return in addition to five years of annual [[COMPOSITE]] returns (or for each annual period since the [[COMPOSITE INCEPTION DATE]] if the [[COMPOSITE]] has been in existence for less than five years). The annual returns MUST be calculated through the same period as presented in the corresponding [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]].
- The annualized [[COMPOSITE]] return for the total period that includes all periods presented in the corresponding [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]], through either:
    - The most recent period end, or
    - The most recent annual period end.
## Discussion
Provision 8.C.1 does not require a firm presenting time-weighted returns in a GIPS Advertisement to include all four options (a through d) mentioned in the provision. Rather, a firm must present performance in accordance with one of the options described in the provision. A GIPS Advertisement must also adhere to all applicable laws and regulations governing advertisements.

Three of the four options in Provision 8.C.1 include the presentation of annualized composite returns, which represent the geometric average annual compound return achieved over the defined period of more than one year. Annualized performance is permitted only for periods of one year or more.

The formula for calculating annualized performance is as follows:
- Annualized Return (%) = ((1 + _R_)_<sup>1/n</sup>_) – 1,

where _R_ is the cumulative return for the period, which is calculated by geometrically linking the sub-period returns during the period, and _n_ is the number of years in the period.

For example, assume a composite’s cumulative return for a five-year period is 150.0%. It has a five-year average annual compound return, or annualized return, of 20.11%, which is calculated as:

- ((1+1.50)<sup>1/5</sup>) – 1 = 0.2011 = 20.11%.

If instead the 150% is earned over 12.5 years, the 12.5-year average annual compound return, or annualized return, is 7.61%, which is calculated as:

- ((1+1.50)<sup>1/12.5</sup>) – 1 = 0.0761 = 7.61%.

If the firm chooses to comply with Provision 8.C.1.a, it must present the one-, three-, and five-year annualized composite returns through the most recent period end. If the composite has been in existence for less than five years, the firm must also present the annualized composite return from the composite inception date through the most recent period end, in addition to the most recent one-year return (and the three-year annualized return, if the composite has been in existence for three years or longer).

The most recent period-end date is as of the most recent month- or quarter-end date.

For example, if preparing a GIPS Advertisement in May, the most recent quarter end would be 31 March and the most recent month end would be 30 April. The firm may choose whether to use month-end or quarter-end periods.

If the firm chooses to comply with Provision 8.C.1.b, it must present the period-to-date composite return in addition to the one-, three-, and five-year annualized composite returns through the same period as presented in the corresponding GIPS Composite Report. For example, if the GIPS Composite Report includes calendar-year annual returns, then the annualized returns in the GIPS Advertisements must be through the most recent 31 December. If the composite has been in existence for less than five years, the firm must also present the annualized composite return from the composite inception date through the most recent period end (either month or quarter end), in addition to the one-year return (and the three-year annualized return, if the composite has been in existence for three years or longer).

If the firm chooses to comply with Provision 8.C.1.c, it must present the period-to-date composite return in addition to five years of annual composite returns. If the composite has been in existence for less than five years, the firm must present the annual composite returns for each annual period since the composite’s inception date. The annual returns must be calculated through the same period as presented in the corresponding GIPS Composite Report.

If the firm chooses to comply with Provision 8.C.1.d, it must present the annualized composite return for the total period that includes all periods presented in the corresponding GIPS Composite Report through either: a) the most recent month or quarter period end or b) the most recent annual period end. If the composite has been in existence for less than one year, the return must not be annualized.

In the spirit of fair representation and full disclosure, Provision [[8.A.7]] requires that all composite returns included in a GIPS Advertisement must be derived from the returns that have been included in or that will be included in the corresponding GIPS Composite Report. This is to ensure consistency in the performance reported by a firm. If a GIPS Advertisement is more current than the corresponding GIPS Composite Report, it is permissible to include more recent performance in the GIPS Advertisement, as long as this performance will be included in the GIPS Composite Report when it is updated or would be included in the GIPS Composite Report if it were issued as of the date of the GIPS Advertisement.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions