---
tags: []
---
Links: [[8. GIPS Advertising Guidelines]]
___
# 8.G.9
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose the pooled FUND DESCRIPTION.
## Discussion
To help a reader of a GIPS Advertisement more fully understand the pooled fund being presented, a firm must disclose the pooled fund description in the advertisement. The pooled fund description is general information regarding the investment mandate, objective, or strategy of the pooled fund. The pooled fund description must include all key features of the pooled fund and must include enough information to allow a reader of the advertisement to understand the key characteristics of the pooled fund’s investment mandate, objective, or strategy, including:
- the material risks of the pooled fund’s strategy,
- how leverage, derivatives, and short positions may be used, if they are a material part of the strategy, and
- if illiquid investments are a material part of the strategy.

The required disclosure of the pooled fund description provides information about the pooled fund’s investment strategy that is intended to help the reader of the GIPS Advertisement who is reviewing a GIPS Advertisement for that pooled fund. The pooled fund description should provide sufficient information to the reader to allow them to differentiate the significant features of the pooled fund’s strategy from other strategies or pooled funds within the firm and to compare products across firms. The disclosed strategy features will likely affect both the historical and expected risk and returns. Along with the required disclosure of the benchmark description (see Provision [[8.G.12]]), the GIPS Advertisement will allow the reader to understand both the investment strategy employed and the benchmark against which the pooled fund’s performance is evaluated. This will help the reader to compare investments across firms.

If leverage, derivatives, and short positions may be used, and they are a material part of the strategy, this must be disclosed in the pooled fund description. When determining what would be material, the firm must consider whether the disclosure of how leverage, derivatives, and/or short positions are used and/or have been used historically is likely to affect a prospective investor’s view of the risk involved in the strategy. If so, it would be misleading for the firm to fail to disclose their use to these prospective investors when describing the strategy. Firms should also disclose how leverage, derivative, and short positions have been used historically, if material. Doing so would provide a more complete picture about the presence, use, and extent of leverage, derivatives, and short positions.

Generally, all investment products or strategies have some degree of inherent risk (e.g., market risk), but it is not intended that the pooled fund description identifies every risk of the pooled fund’s strategy. Instead, firms must identify those material risks of the strategy, if any, and must disclose those risks. For example, investment concentration, correlation (or lack thereof), liquidity, and exposure to counterparties are features that may need to be included in the pooled fund description.

The key characteristics of some pooled fund strategies may change in response to market events. Firms should periodically review pooled fund descriptions to ensure they are current.

A sample list of pooled fund descriptions can be found in Appendix D: Sample Lists.

### Sample Disclosures for a Firm’s US Fixed-Income Fund:
Given the abbreviated nature of an advertisement, there may be times when firms may wish to use a shorter pooled fund description in a GIPS Advertisement than is used in other materials. The following example illustrates how a pooled fund description can be shortened for an advertisement while still conveying the essential features of the pooled fund’s strategy.

Longer Version of the US Fixed-Income Fund Description
“The Fund is designed to maximize total return by investing in a portfolio of investment-grade intermediate- and long-term debt securities. The Fund will primarily invest in corporate bonds, US Treasuries, other US government and agency securities, and asset-backed, mortgage-related, and mortgage-backed securities. The Fund will invest at least 80% of its assets in bonds and up to 20% in cash and cash equivalents. The Fund is subject to general market risk, interest rate risk, credit (issuer and counterparty) risk, and liquidity risk. General market risk is the risk that the value of the securities owned by the Fund may underperform because of factors affecting particular industries or securities markets generally. Interest rate risk is the risk the values of bonds will change as a result of changes in interest rates. If rates increase, the value of bonds declines in general. Credit risk is the risk the value of investments may change because of changes in creditworthiness of issuers of debt securities and default of counterparties in investment transactions. Liquidity risk is the risk the Fund may have a loss when it sells securities to raise cash for redemption requests by shareholders.”

Shorter Version of the US Fixed-Income Fund Description
“The Fund invests in a portfolio of US investment-grade intermediate- and long-term debt securities, such as corporate bonds, US Treasuries, other US government and agency securities, and asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities. Up to 20% may be held in cash and cash equivalents. The fixed-income investments must be rated investment grade or above. The Fund is subject to general market risk, interest rate risk, credit (issuer and counterparty) risk, and liquidity risk. The Fund’s benchmark is the XYZ Bond Index.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions