---
tags: []
---
Links: [[8. GIPS Advertising Guidelines]]
___
# 8.G.7
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose the current [[EXPENSE RATIO]] and which fees and expenses are included in the [[EXPENSE RATIO]]. The FIRM MUST disclose if [[PERFORMANCE-BASED FEE|PERFORMANCE-BASED FEES]] are not reflected in the [[EXPENSE RATIO]], if applicable.
## Discussion
Firms must disclose the current expense ratio as well as which fees and expenses are included in the expense ratio. The pooled fund expense ratio is the ratio of total pooled fund expenses to average net assets. The expense ratio should not reflect transaction costs. The expense ratio gives readers of the GIPS Advertisement insight into the total fees and expenses involved in an investment in the fund. For example, a pooled fund expense ratio of 1.00% indicates that an investor will pay $10 in expenses each year for every $1,000 invested, in addition to transaction costs. An expense ratio also helps investors compare expenses across funds, because even a small difference in fees can have a significant effect over time.

Because expense ratios can change over time, firms must determine which expense ratio to present. A firm might choose to present the expense ratio as of the most recent annual period end, or the last known expense ratio. When the expense ratio has had a material change resulting from a change in assets or costs, the firm should present a more current expense ratio that reflects what a prospective investor is likely to pay at the current time.

If the pooled fund has multiple share classes, the firm may present multiple expense ratios or may present the expense ratio for the share class that has the highest expense ratio and is available for general distribution. Presenting a range of expense ratios (e.g., the expense ratio for all share classes ranges between 0.40% and 0.85%) would not satisfy this requirement. Performance-based fees are expected to be included in the expense ratio. If laws or regulations do not allow the inclusion of performance-based fees in the calculation of the expense ratio, the firm must disclose that performance-based fees are not reflected in the expense ratio.

Pooled fund expense ratios that are calculated for periods of less than one year must be annualized. For example, assume that a pooled fund starts on 1 April, and the firm calculates an expense ratio of 0.75% for the period from 1 April 2019 through 31 December 2019. The firm must present an annualized rate of 1.00%, representing a pooled fund expense ratio for the entire year, rather than the 0.75% that represents an expense ratio for only nine months. Presenting an annualized expense ratio facilitates the comparison of expense ratios across funds and firms. Firms may also present the non-annualized expense ratio but must clearly disclose or indicate that the expense ratio is not annualized.
### Sample Disclosure:
“The Fund’s expense ratio (annual, Class A) is 1.00%. The expense ratio is calculated based on the Fund’s average net assets during the Fund’s most recently completed fiscal year and has not been adjusted for current asset levels. The expense ratio includes operating costs, including administrative, compliance, distribution, management, marketing, shareholder services, and record-keeping fees. Please see the Fund’s prospectus for additional details.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions