---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: [[8. GIPS Advertising Guidelines]]
___
# 8.G.4
## Standard for Firms
If the GIPS ADVERTISEMENT is not created for a specific share class and POOLED FUND NET RETURNS are presented, POOLED FUND NET RETURNS MUST reflect the fees and expenses of:
- The share class with the maximum fee that is available for general distribution, or
- All share classes.
## Discussion
Broad distribution pooled funds (BDPFs) often have many share classes, each with different fees and expenses. It is important that the pooled fund net returns presented in a GIPS Advertisement reflect the appropriate fees and expenses so the returns are not false or misleading. If a BDPF has multiple share classes, and the GIPS Advertisement is not created for a specific share class, the firm has two options in terms of the fees and expenses that must be reflected in the pooled fund net returns presented in the GIPS Advertisement.

The first option is for the firm to present pooled fund net returns that reflect the fees and expenses of the share class that has the maximum fee and that is available for general distribution. A share class of a BDPF is considered available for general distribution if the share class is available to anyone who is qualified to invest in that pooled fund. For example, suppose that a mutual fund has only two share classes:
- a retail share class that requires a minimum initial investment of $500, which is the lowest minimum investment for any share class in the fund, and
- an institutional share class that has a minimum initial investment of $1,000,000.

The retail share class is considered to be available for general distribution because it is available to any investor willing to make the minimum initial investment of $500 that is necessary to invest in the fund. The institutional share class is not considered to be available for general distribution because investment in that share class is limited to those investors who are willing to make a significantly larger investment in the fund. In this case, the retail share class is the only class of shares of the fund that is available for general distribution. It is, therefore, the fees and expense of the retail share class that must be reflected in the pooled fund net returns. If there are multiple retail share classes, the firm must use the fees and expenses of the retail share class with the highest fees and expenses that is available for general distribution.

The second option is to include information on all share classes by presenting either:
- all share classes, with the returns for each share class presented individually reflecting the fees and expenses of that share class, or
- a combined weighted average net return that reflects the fees and expenses of all share classes.

Regardless of the method chosen by a firm to present returns that appropriately reflect fees and expenses for a BDPF with multiple share classes, it is important to have sufficient disclosures so that prospective investors understand what fees and expenses are reflected in the BDPF’s net returns. For example, if the firm chooses to present a combined weighted average net return that reflects the fees and expenses of all share classes, it may be appropriate to disclose that the return does not necessarily reflect the return of any individual investor. It may also be appropriate to provide details for how a reader of the advertisement would be able to obtain additional information on fees and expenses or any other information included in the GIPS Advertisement.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions