---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: [[8. GIPS Advertising Guidelines]]
___
# 8.G.2
## Standard for Firms
If specific periods are not mandated by laws or regulations, POOLED FUND returns MUST be presented consistent with one of the following options:
- One-, three-, and five-year annualized returns through the most recent period. If the POOLED FUND has been in existence for less than five years, the FIRM MUST also present the annualized return since the POOLED FUND INCEPTION DATE.
- The period-to-date return in addition to one-, three-, and five-year annualized returns through the most recent period. If the POOLED FUND has been in existence for less than five years, the FIRM MUST also present the annualized return since the POOLED FUND INCEPTION DATE.
- The period-to-date return in addition to five years of annual returns (or for each annual period since the POOLED FUND INCEPTION DATE if the POOLED FUND has been in existence for less than five years).
- The annualized POOLED FUND return since the POOLED FUND INCEPTION DATE through the most recent period.
## Discussion
Provision 8.G.2 does not require a firm presenting time-weighted returns in a GIPS Advertisement to include all four options (a through d) mentioned in the provision. Rather, a firm must present performance in accordance with laws or regulations (Provision [[8.G.1]]) or one of the options described in Provision 8.G.2. A GIPS Advertisement must also adhere to all applicable laws and regulations governing advertisements.

Three of the four options in Provision 8.G.2 include the presentation of annualized pooled fund returns, which represent the geometric average annual compound return achieved over the defined period of more than one year. Annualized performance is permitted only for periods of one year or more.

The formula for calculating annualized performance is as follows:
- Annualized Return (%) = ((1 + _R_)_<sup>1/n</sup>_) – 1,

where _R_ is the cumulative return for the period, which is calculated by geometrically linking the sub-period returns during the period, and _n_ is the number of years in the period.

For example, assume a pooled fund’s cumulative return for a five-year period is 150.0%. It has a five-year average annual compound return, or annualized return, of 20.11%, which is calculated as:
- ((1+1.50)<sup>1/5</sup>) – 1 = 0.2011 = 20.11%.

If instead the 150% is earned over 12.5 years, the 12.5-year average annual compound return, or annualized return, is 7.61%, which is calculated as:
- ((1+1.50)<sup>1/12.5</sup>) – 1 = 0.0761 = 7.61%.

If the firm chooses to comply with Provision 8.G.2.a, it must present the one-, three-, and five-year annualized pooled fund returns through the most recent period end. If the pooled fund has been in existence for less than five years, the firm must also present the annualized pooled fund return from the pooled fund inception date through the most recent period end, in addition to the most recent one-year return (and the three-year annualized return, if the pooled fund has been in existence for three years or longer).

The most recent period-end date is as of the most recent month- or quarter-end date. For example, if preparing a GIPS Advertisement in May, the most recent quarter end would be 31 March and the most recent month end would be 30 April. The firm may choose whether to use month-end or quarter-end periods.

If the firm chooses to comply with Provision 8.G.2.b, it must present the period-to-date pooled fund return in addition to the one-, three-, and five-year annualized pooled fund returns through the most recent period end (either month or quarter end). If the pooled fund has been in existence for less than five years, the firm must also present the annualized pooled fund return from the pooled fund inception date through the most recent period end (either month or quarter end) in addition to the one-year return (and the three-year annualized return, if the pooled fund has been in existence for three years or longer).

If the firm chooses to comply with Provision 8.G.2.c, it must present the period-to-date pooled fund return in addition to five years of annual pooled fund returns (or for each annual period since the pooled fund inception date if the pooled fund has been in existence for less than five years).

If the firm chooses to comply with Provision 8.G.2.d, it must present the annualized pooled fund return from the pooled fund inception date through the most recent period end (either month or quarter end). If the pooled fund has been in existence for less than one year, the return must not be annualized.

The GIPS standards require firms to present time-weighted returns (TWRs) unless very specific circumstances are met. As discussed in Provision [[1.A.35]], a firm may present money-weighted returns (MWRs) instead of TWRs only if the firm has control over the external cash flows into and out of the pooled fund and the pooled fund has at least one of the following characteristics:
- closed-end
- fixed life
- fixed commitment
- illiquid investments as a significant part of the investment strategy.

A firm typically does not know the investors in a broad distribution pooled fund (BDPF) and therefore would be unable to call capital. Most BDPFs also would not meet at least one of the four specified characteristics. For these reasons, the discussion of BDPF returns presented in a GIPS Advertisement focuses on TWRs. However, MWRs may be presented in a GIPS Advertisement for a BDPF if required by laws or regulations. (See Provision [[8.G.1]]) If the presentation of an MWR for a BDPF is mandated by laws or regulations, the MWR presented must be the annualized (for periods longer than one year) or non-annualized (for periods less than one year) since-inception MWR through the most recent period end, unless a different period is specified by laws or regulations. Firms must follow the calculation methodology specified by laws or regulations. If local laws and regulations do not specify a calculation methodology, firms should follow the requirements for calculating MWRs included in Provision [[2.A.29]].

When laws or regulations do not require MWRs for BDPFs, firms may include MWRs in a GIPS Advertisement along with TWRs.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions