---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 6.C.15
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose how leverage, derivatives, and short positions have been used historically, if material.
## Discussion
Firms must provide enough information in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report to allow a prospective investor to understand how leverage, derivatives, and short positions have been employed historically and may be used going forward. Although the pooled fund description includes disclosure of the firm’s ability to use leverage, derivatives, and short positions (see Provision [[6.C.4]]), Provision 6.C.15 requires that the firm disclose the leverage, derivatives, and short positions that have been used historically, if material. Taken together, these two required disclosures provide a more complete picture of the presence, use, and extent of leverage, derivatives, and short positions.

For example, assume a firm discloses in the pooled fund description that the strategy may employ up to 200% leverage. To satisfy the disclosure requirement in Provision 6.C.15, the firm might state, “Since the inception of the strategy, the leverage has averaged 110% of the pooled fund’s value; however, during 2019 the leverage averaged 160%, which greatly increased the sensitivity to market volatility and the potential for realized gains and/or losses.”

No disclosure is required if leverage, derivatives, and short positions have not been used or if their use has not been material. When determining what would be material, the firm must consider whether the disclosure of how leverage, derivatives, and/or short positions have been used historically is likely to affect a prospective investor’s view of the risk involved in the pooled fund’s strategy. If so, it would be misleading for the firm to fail to disclose their use to prospective investors when describing the strategy.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions