---
tags: []
---
Links: [[6. Pooled Fund Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 6.C.12
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose the POOLED FUND INCEPTION DATE and what the POOLED FUND INCEPTION DATE represents.
## Discussion
When reviewing the performance data in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report, it is important that prospective investors have sufficient information regarding the length of the pooled fund track record to put the performance presented in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report in perspective. Therefore, the inception date of the pooled fund being presented in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report must be disclosed. Prospective investors can then compare the periods of performance presented in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report with the length of the pooled fund’s track record, and they can request additional information for historical periods not included in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report.

Because an inception date may represent a different point in the life of a fund for different funds, a firm must also disclose what the pooled fund inception date represents. For example, for a broad distribution pooled fund, the inception date is the date on which the fund commences operations and begins trading. For a limited distribution fund, the inception date may be based on one of the following dates: (1) when investment management fees are first charged, (2) when the first investment-related cash flow takes place, (3) when the first capital call is made, or (4) when the first committed capital is closed and legally binding. It is only with appropriate disclosure that prospective investors can understand what the inception date represents.

### Sample Disclosure for a Broad Distribution Pooled Fund:
“The Small Cap Growth Fund has an inception date of 1 May 2017, the date on which the Fund began operations.”

### Sample Disclosure for a Limited Distribution Pooled Fund:
“The Global Growth Fund has an inception date of 15 September 2019, the date of the first capital call from the Fund’s limited partners.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions