---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 6.C.27
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM changes the BENCHMARK, the FIRM MUST disclose:
- For a prospective BENCHMARK change, the date and description of the change. Changes must be disclosed for as long as returns for the prior BENCHMARK are included in the [[GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT]].
- For a retroactive BENCHMARK change, the date and description of the change. Changes must be disclosed for a minimum of one year and for as long as they are relevant to interpreting the track record.
## Discussion
Firms must disclose the date and description of any changes to the benchmark over time.

A benchmark change can take two forms:
- The benchmark is changed from one benchmark to another on a prospective basis only.
- The benchmark is changed for all periods (i.e., retroactively).

In most cases, the firm should only change the benchmark going forward and not change the benchmark retroactively.

If the firm changes the benchmark prospectively and presents benchmark returns that combine two different benchmarks, the date and description of the change must be disclosed for as long as returns for the prior benchmark are included in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report. For example, assume a firm changes the benchmark for a pooled fund in June 2015, and the change is made prospectively. As long as benchmark returns from 2015 or prior periods are included in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report, the firm must include this disclosure. Firms must also carefully identify the benchmark as a custom benchmark in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report and must make clear that the benchmark returns are not those of the current benchmark for all periods. It would not be appropriate to label the benchmark returns with the name of the current benchmark. The firm must provide information, including labeling of the benchmark, that is sufficient to allow a prospective investor to distinguish the prior benchmark returns from the current benchmark returns.

There may be times when a firm determines that it is appropriate to change the benchmark for a given pooled fund retroactively. For example, because benchmarks are continually evolving, if the firm finds that a new benchmark is a better comparison for an investment strategy, the firm may consider changing the benchmark retroactively. In the case of a retroactive benchmark change, there must be a disclosure of the date and description of the benchmark change, including the fact that the benchmark was changed retroactively. Disclosures related to a retroactive change in a benchmark must be included in the respective GIPS Pooled Fund Report for a minimum of one year and for as long as the disclosures are relevant to interpreting the performance track record. The firm must consider the underlying principles of the GIPS standards, which are fair representation and full disclosure, when determining how long this disclosure will be included in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report.

When a firm changes a benchmark retroactively, the firm is encouraged to continue to also present the old benchmark.

This provision applies to a fundamental change in the benchmark – for example, a change in an index used in calculating the benchmark – rather than to periodic minor changes in benchmark weights and components. If a firm uses a custom benchmark that is a blend of one or more benchmarks, a change in the weights of the constituent benchmarks is not considered a benchmark change within the scope of this provision. For example, the benchmark may change every quarter as part of the normal procedure. In this instance, it is appropriate to disclose that the benchmark is rebalanced quarterly using the weights of the asset classes in the strategy’s model portfolio A firm is not required to disclose how the asset class weights have changed each quarter but may do so.

Changes to the benchmark primarily intended to make performance look better by lowering the benchmark return violate the spirit of the GIPS standards.

### Sample Disclosure for a Prospective Change:
“Benchmark results presented are a combination of two indices. ABC Index was used prior to 30 September 2015; ABC Value Index is used subsequently.”

### Sample Disclosure for a Retroactive Change:
“In January 2017, the benchmark was changed from ABC Index to XYZ Index for all periods.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions