---
tags: []
---
Links: [[6. Pooled Fund Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 6.C.28
## Standard for Firms
If a custom BENCHMARK or combination of multiple [[BENCHMARK|BENCHMARKS]] is used, the FIRM MUST:
- Disclose the BENCHMARK components, weights, and rebalancing process, if applicable.
- Disclose the calculation methodology.
- Clearly label the BENCHMARK to indicate that it is a custom BENCHMARK.
## Discussion
When custom benchmarks are used, the firm must disclose the benchmark components, weights, and rebalancing process, if applicable, as well as the calculation methodology. For example, if the firm combines two indices, WW Index and XX Index, to create the WWXX benchmark for the pooled fund, the following would be an appropriate disclosure:

“The WWXX benchmark is a combination of 50% WW Index and 50% XX Index, calculated by weighting the respective index returns on a monthly basis.”

It is also required that the benchmark be clearly labeled to indicate that it is a custom benchmark. For example, the label for the benchmark returns in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report would read “Custom Benchmark.” The benchmark description and required disclosures might read as follows:

“_Custom Benchmark:_ The benchmark is 100% hedged. The benchmark is based on a zero-cost one-month rolling hedge, whereby mid spot rates and one-month bid-offer forward points are applied.”

In some markets, it has become more common to use benchmarks that reflect the deduction of model fees or other expenses. These net benchmarks are considered custom benchmarks. A firm must not present net benchmark returns compared with only pooled fund gross returns. For example, assume the firm wishes to include a custom benchmark that reflects the deduction of model or actual total pooled fund fees, but the firm presents only pooled fund gross returns in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report. The firm must not present net benchmark returns when only pooled fund gross returns are presented. The firm may use net benchmark returns only when pooled fund net returns are presented. The use of net benchmark returns when only pooled fund gross returns are presented is one instance where disclosure is not sufficient to prevent the information presented from being false and misleading. When a firm includes net benchmark returns in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report, the firm must clearly label the benchmark as a custom net benchmark and disclose the calculation methodology.

It is becoming more common for exchange-traded funds (ETFs) to be used as benchmarks. An ETF is a pooled fund that tracks a specific investment universe that is expressed by an index or a basket of securities and that is listed on an exchange. Unlike a market index, an ETF incurs trading costs and other charges, including taxes. Because of the incurred costs, an ETF may underperform the market index that it tracks. If an ETF is chosen as the benchmark for a strategy, the firm should present pooled fund net returns. As part of the benchmark description for an ETF, the firm must disclose the following items:
- if ETF returns are gross or net of fees and other costs, including transaction costs;
- the ETF expense ratio, if ETF net returns are presented;
- if ETF returns are based on market prices or net asset values (NAVs);
- the timing of the market close used to determine the ETF’s valuations; and
- if ETF returns are gross or net of withholding taxes, if this information is available.

If the firm also presents pooled fund gross returns, it should present ETF returns that are grossed up, but it is not required to do so.
### Sample Disclosures:
“Benchmark returns are a customized version of the XYZ Index, which is calculated monthly by XYZ Company. The benchmark reflects the deduction of a model fee of 1.00% per annum, which is calculated monthly by deducting 1/12 of 1% from the benchmark return.”

“The benchmark is the Special ETF, which tracks the securities included in the Special Index. The ETF returns reflect the deduction of all expenses and transaction costs incurred by the Special ETF and are net of withholding taxes. As of 31 December 2019, the expense ratio was 0.14%. The Special ETF returns reflect market prices, which are determined by the midpoint between the bid and ask prices as of the closing time of the New York Stock Exchange.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions