---
tags: []
---
Links: [[6. Pooled Fund Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 6.C.1
## Standard for Firms
Once the FIRM has met all the applicable REQUIREMENTS of the GIPS standards, the FIRM MUST disclose its compliance with the GIPS standards using one of the following compliance statements. The compliance statement for a POOLED FUND MUST only be used in a [[GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT]].
- For a firm that is verified:  
    “(Insert name of FIRM) claims compliance with the Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS®) and has prepared and presented this report in compliance with the GIPS standards. (Insert name of FIRM) has been independently verified for the periods (insert dates). The verification report(s) is/are available upon request.  
    “A firm that claims compliance with the GIPS standards must establish policies and procedures for complying with all the applicable requirements of the GIPS standards. Verification provides assurance on whether the firm’s policies and procedures related to composite and pooled fund maintenance, as well as the calculation, presentation, and distribution of performance, have been designed in compliance with the GIPS standards and have been implemented on a firm-wide basis. Verification does not provide assurance on the accuracy of any specific performance report.”
- For POOLED FUNDS of a verified firm that have also had a [[PERFORMANCE EXAMINATION]]:  
    “(Insert name of FIRM) claims compliance with the Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS®) and has prepared and presented this report in compliance with the GIPS standards. (Insert name of FIRM) has been independently verified for the periods (insert dates).  
    “A firm that claims compliance with the GIPS standards must establish policies and procedures for complying with all the applicable requirements of the GIPS standards. Verification provides assurance on whether the firm’s policies and procedures related to composite and pooled fund maintenance, as well as the calculation, presentation, and distribution of performance, have been designed in compliance with the GIPS standards and have been implemented on a firm-wide basis. The (insert name of POOLED FUND) has had a performance examination for the periods (insert dates). The verification and performance examination reports are available upon request.” The compliance statement for a FIRM that is verified or for POOLED FUNDS of a verified FIRM that have also had a [[PERFORMANCE EXAMINATION]] is complete only when both paragraphs are shown together, one after the other.
- For a FIRM that has not been verified:  
    “(Insert name of FIRM) claims compliance with the Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS®) and has prepared and presented this report in compliance with the GIPS standards. (Insert name of FIRM) has not been independently verified.” The FIRM MUST NOT exclude any portion of the respective compliance statement. Any modifications to the compliance statement must be additive.
## Discussion
A firm meeting all the requirements of the GIPS standards must use one of the three compliance statements in each of its GIPS Pooled Fund Reports. The English version of the compliance statements is the controlling version. If a firm chooses to translate the claim of compliance into a language for which there is no official translation of the GIPS standards, the firm must take care to ensure that the translation used reflects the required wording of the claim of compliance used in Provisions 6.C.1.a, 6.C.1.b, or 6.C.1.c.

It is acceptable to combine both paragraphs of the claim of compliance for a verified firm (Provision 6.C.1.a) into a single paragraph. If the paragraphs are not combined, the claim of compliance for a verified firm is complete only when both paragraphs are shown together, one after the other. A firm may not separate the two required paragraphs from each other.

The same is true for the claim of compliance for a pooled fund that has also had a performance examination (Provision 6.C.1.b). Both paragraphs of the claim of compliance may be combined into a single paragraph. If the paragraphs are not combined, the claim of compliance is complete only when both paragraphs are shown together, one after the other. A firm may not separate the two required paragraphs from each other.

When preparing the GIPS Pooled Fund Report for a pooled fund that has had a performance examination, the firm may choose to use either the verification or performance examination compliance statement. For example, a firm might choose to use the verification compliance statement for all GIPS Reports, including GIPS Reports for composites or pooled funds that have had a performance examination, if it wishes to standardize the compliance statement for all GIPS Reports throughout the firm. In this situation, the firm may also disclose that a specific composite or pooled fund has had a performance examination.

The language in each compliance statement must not exclude any portion of the respective compliance statement, with one exception. In the second paragraph of both 6.C.1.a and 6.C.1.b, there is a reference to “composite and pooled fund maintenance.” The firm may delete the words “composite and” if no composites are included within the definition of the firm.

There may also be instances where it may be appropriate for a firm to modify the language slightly. For example, a firm may modify the language to include the name of the firm’s verifier, if the firm wishes to disclose this information. A firm may also need to modify the language to add more details about the name of the firm that has been verified or the dates of the verification if the verification period was not continuous. Any modifications must be additive and must not result in a compliance statement that is false or misleading.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions