---
tags: []
---
Links: [[6. Pooled Fund Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 6.C.10
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose the current [[FEE SCHEDULE]] appropriate to [[PROSPECTIVE INVESTOR|PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS]].
## Discussion
Firms must disclose the current schedule of investment management fees that is applicable to prospective investors for the specific pooled fund. The fee schedule can be asset based, performance based, or a combination of both. Firms are also required to disclose the pooled fund’s expense ratio, which includes investment management fees as well as all other pooled fund expenses. See Provision [[6.A.5]] for a discussion of pooled fund expense ratios.

The fee schedule should be appropriate to the particular prospective investor and must be current. Although a current fee schedule may not assist a prospective investor when interpreting historical performance because the actual fees paid may differ from the fee schedule disclosed, it is the most relevant fee schedule for the prospective investor. The actual fee that the prospective investor may pay (if the investor hires the firm) could also differ from the fee schedule disclosed in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report. For example, the prospective investor may be able to negotiate a lower fee.

If the pooled fund has multiple fee schedules, the firm may use the highest fee schedule as the appropriate fee that can be used for all prospective investors. The firm may also include multiple fee schedules in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report. Including a range of fee schedules (e.g., management fees range from 0.50% to 0.95%) would not satisfy this requirement.

This disclosure requirement is not satisfied if the firm does not include the fee schedule in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report and instead makes reference to another document that includes the fee schedule, such as Form ADV, which is a US regulatory document, or a fund prospectus. The fee schedule may be an exhibit attached to the GIPS Pooled Fund Report. The exhibit may be the pooled fund’s offering documents, if the offering documents include the appropriate current fee schedule.

### Sample Disclosure:
“The annual fee schedule for Fund XYZ is as follows:

|   |   |
|---|---|
|First €10 million|0.80%|
|Next €40 million|0.60%|
|Above €50 million|0.30%”|
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions