---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 6.C.6
## Standard for Firms
When presenting POOLED FUND GROSS RETURNS, the FIRM MUST disclose if any other fees are deducted in addition to TRANSACTION COSTS.
## Discussion
A pooled fund gross return is the return on investments reduced by any transaction costs. If a firm presents pooled fund gross returns in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report, the firm must disclose if any other fees are deducted in addition to transaction costs. For example, a pooled fund’s gross returns might reflect the deduction of administrative expenses, such as custodian and fund accounting fees. The same is true for a fund of funds. Firms are not required to disclose that returns reflect the deduction of expenses incurred in underlying investments, including investments in other pooled funds.

In cases where fees other than transactions costs have been deducted from the pooled fund gross returns, this disclosure helps prospective investors understand the gross returns being presented and therefore compare performance across firms.

Firms may calculate pooled fund gross returns that do not reflect the deduction of the underlying pooled fund investment management fees only when the firm controls the investment management fees of the underlying pooled funds. In such situations, the firm can present the pooled fund gross returns that are gross of the underlying funds’ investment management fees but net of the underlying funds’ transaction costs and other expenses. The following represent some situations in which this criterion is met:
- Both underlying funds and the fund of funds are managed by the same firm, and there is effectively a fee rebate or waiver at the fund-of-funds level for those fees charged at the underlying fund level.
- A fund of funds resembles a master-feeder structure that invests in one or multiple underlying funds managed by the same firm, and its investment management fee model is structured so that the investment management fee is either partially or fully charged at the underlying fund level.
### Sample Disclosure:
“Gross returns reflect the deduction of administrative expenses but do not reflect the deduction of investment management fees.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions