---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 6.C.4
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose the POOLED FUND DESCRIPTION.
## Discussion
The pooled fund description is defined as general information regarding the investment mandate, objective, or strategy of the pooled fund. The pooled fund description must include enough information to allow a prospective investor to understand the key characteristics of the pooled fund’s investment mandate, objective, or strategy, including:
- the material risks of the pooled fund’s strategy,
- how leverage, derivatives, and short positions may be used, if they are a material part of the strategy, and
- if illiquid investments are a material part of the strategy.

The required disclosure of the pooled fund description provides information about the pooled fund’s investment strategy that is intended to help a prospective investor who is considering an investment in a pooled fund and is reviewing a GIPS Pooled Fund Report for that pooled fund. The pooled fund description should provide sufficient information to prospective investors to allow them to differentiate the significant features of the pooled fund from other strategies or pooled funds within the firm and to compare products across firms. The disclosed strategy features will likely affect both the historical and expected risk and returns. Along with the required benchmark description (see Provision [[6.C.5]]), the GIPS Pooled Fund Report will allow prospective investors to understand both the investment strategy employed and the benchmark against which the pooled fund’s performance is evaluated. This will help prospective investors to compare investments across firms.

If leverage, derivatives, and short positions may be used, and they are a material part of the strategy, this must be disclosed in the pooled fund description. Provision [[6.C.15]] requires that the firm disclose how leverage, derivatives, and short positions have been used historically, if material. Taken together, these two required disclosures provide a more complete picture about the presence, use, and extent of leverage, derivatives, and short positions. When determining what would be material, the firm must consider whether the disclosure of how leverage, derivatives, and/or short positions may be used and/or have been used historically is likely to affect a prospective investor’s view of the risk involved in the pooled fund’s strategy. If so, it would be misleading for the firm to fail to disclose their use to these prospective investors when describing the strategy.

Generally, all investment products or strategies have some degree of inherent risk (e.g., market risk), but it is not intended that the pooled fund description identifies every risk of the pooled fund’s strategy. Instead, firms must identify those material risks of the strategy, if any, and must disclose those risks. For example, investment concentration, correlation (or lack thereof), liquidity, and exposure to counterparties are features that may need to be included in the pooled fund description.

The key characteristics of some pooled fund strategies may change given market events. Firms should periodically review pooled fund descriptions to ensure they are current.

#### Sample Disclosures:
“The Large Cap Equity Growth Fund invests in large-capitalization US stocks that are considered to have growth in earnings prospects that is superior to that of the average company within the benchmark, the XYZ Large Cap Growth Index. The targeted tracking error between the pooled fund and the benchmark is less than 3%.”

“The Leveraged Bond Pooled Fund invests in a diversified range of high-yield corporate and government bonds with the aim of providing investors with a high level of income while seeking to maximize the total return. The fund is invested in domestic and international fixed-income securities of varying maturities. The strategy allows investment in exchange-traded and OTC derivative contracts (including, but not limited to, options, futures, swaps, and forward currency contracts) for the purposes of risk, volatility, and currency exposure management. The strategy allows leverage up to but not exceeding twice the value of the fund’s investments through the use of repurchase financing arrangements with counterparties. Inherent in derivative instrument investments is the risk of counterparty default. Leverage may also magnify losses as well as gains to the extent that leverage is employed. The benchmark is the XYZ Capital Global Aggregate Bond Index.”

“The Juneau Private Placement Bond Fund invests in investment-grade, long-term, fixed-rate private placement bonds denominated in Canadian dollars, in a variety of industries. Private placement bonds are illiquid investments and have restrictions on transferability. The fund primarily invests in private placement bonds with maturities greater than 10 years that are, therefore, sensitive to changes in interest rates. Investments in the fund are subject to credit risk.”

A Sample List of Pooled Fund Descriptions can be found in Appendix D of the GIPS standards.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions