---
tags: []
---
Links: [[6. Pooled Fund Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 6.C.3
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose the definition of the FIRM used to determine [[TOTAL FIRM ASSETS]] and FIRM-wide compliance.
## Discussion
To claim compliance with the GIPS standards, a firm must comply with all applicable requirements of the GIPS standards on a firm-wide basis. Accordingly, the firm must determine exactly how it will be defined for the purpose of compliance. The GIPS standards require that a firm must be defined as an investment firm, subsidiary, or division held out to the public as a distinct business entity.

A distinct business entity is a unit, division, department, or office that is organizationally and functionally segregated from other units, divisions, departments, or offices, that retains discretion over the assets it manages, and that should have autonomy over the investment decision-making process.

Possible criteria that can be used to determine this status include:
- being a legal entity,
- having a distinct market or client type (e.g., institutional, retail, private client), and
- using a separate and distinct investment process.

See Provision [[1.A.2]] for a more detailed discussion of defining the firm.

Because there are often a number of closely related units or divisions within larger investment management entities, it is critical to disclose the precise definition of the firm that is presenting the performance results and would be responsible for the management of the pooled fund. This provision requires the firm to disclose sufficient details of the entity that is presenting investment performance such that the firm is clearly identified.

### Sample Disclosures:
- Example 1:
	- Firm A is a multinational investment firm with offices around the world, including in Japan, Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Although all of its offices are part of the global parent company, each office is registered with the appropriate national regulatory authority, and each is held out to investors and prospective investors as a distinct business entity. The firm has defined its offices in Japan, Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States as separate firms for the purpose of complying with the GIPS standards. The offices in Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States claim compliance with the GIPS standards. Firm A’s Australia office, however, does not claim compliance with the GIPS standards.
	- Sample Disclosure for Firm A – US:
	  “For the purpose of complying with the GIPS standards, the firm is defined as Firm A – US, which serves US clients and investors and is a subsidiary of Firm A, a multinational investment firm with offices globally. Firm A also has subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, Australia, and Japan, which are not included in the definition of the firm for purposes of compliance with the GIPS standards.”

- Example 2:
	- Firm B has two divisions, each of which serves a distinct client type. Firm B Institutional Investment Management manages institutional assets. Firm B Retail Investors manages retail assets. The firm has determined that it will create two separate firms for the purpose of complying with the GIPS standards.
	- Sample Disclosure for Firm B Institutional Investment Management:
	  “For the purpose of complying with the GIPS standards, the firm is defined as Firm B Institutional Investment Management, the institutional asset management division of Firm B.”

- Example 3:
	- Firm C is an investment management firm that offers both active and passive (indexed) investment strategies. For the purpose of complying with the GIPS standards, the firm has decided to create two separate firms: one that offers active investment strategies and one that offers indexed investment strategies.
	- Sample Disclosure for Firm C – Indexed Investing:
	  “For the purpose of complying with the GIPS standards, the firm is defined as Firm C – Indexed Investing. Firm C – Indexed Investing is the division of Firm C that offers indexed investment strategies to investors.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions