Links: [[3. Composite and Pooled Fund Maintenance]]
___
# 3.B.2
## Standard for Firms
To remove the effect of a [[SIGNIFICANT CASH FLOW]], the FIRM SHOULD use a [[TEMPORARY NEW ACCOUNT]].
## Discussion
In some situations, a client-directed external cash flow may temporarily prevent a firm from implementing the composite strategy. Firms may choose to keep portfolios that experience such cash flows in the composite. Instead, as discussed in Provision [[3.A.12]], a firm may establish a significant cash flow policy that allows the firm to remove a portfolio from a composite if it experiences a client-directed external cash flow that may temporarily prevent the firm from implementing the composite strategy. Another method for removing the effect of a significant cash flow, as discussed in Provision [[3.A.13]], is to use temporary new accounts. If a portfolio experiences a cash inflow that qualifies as a significant cash flow, the firm can create a temporary new account for the inflow of assets. The funds remain in the temporary new account until they are invested and reflect the portfolio’s investment mandate. If the portfolio experiences a cash outflow that qualifies as a significant cash flow, the firm can create a temporary new account funded with the assets that the firm will distribute to the client or will liquidate to meet the client’s cash flow needs. Significant cash flows are not applicable to composites that present performance using money-weighted returns.

It is recommended that a firm use a temporary new account to remove the effect of a significant cash flow rather than removing the portfolio from the composite. The use of temporary new accounts is the most direct method of dealing with significant cash flows and reduces the movement of portfolios into and out of a composite. Please refer to Provisions [[3.A.12]] and [[3.A.13]] for a more detailed discussion of a significant cash flow policy and the creation of temporary new accounts.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions