Links: [[8. GIPS Advertising Guidelines]]
___
# 8.B.2
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose the following: “GIPS® is a registered trademark of CFA Institute. CFA Institute does not endorse or promote this organization, nor does it warrant the accuracy or quality of the content contained herein”
## Discussion
“GIPS®” is a registered trademark of CFA Institute, and firms are required to acknowledge this in all GIPS Advertisements. The required disclosure may appear in the body of the GIPS Advertisement or in a footnote to the GIPS Advertisement. The term “this organization,” which is included in the required disclosure, refers to any entity associated with the GIPS Advertisement, either the firm or the verifier.

CFA Institute (owner of the GIPS® trademark) may take appropriate action against any firm that misuses the mark “GIPS®” or any compliance statement, including false claims of compliance with the GIPS standards. CFA Institute members, CFA Program charterholders, CFA candidates, CIPM Program certificants, and CIPM candidates who misuse the term “GIPS” or any compliance statement, misrepresent their performance history or the performance history of their firm, or falsely claim compliance with the GIPS standards are also subject to disciplinary sanctions under the CFA Institute Code of Ethics and Standards of Professional Conduct. Possible disciplinary sanctions include public censure, suspension of membership, and revocation of the CFA charter or CIPM certificate.

Regulators with jurisdiction over firms claiming compliance with the GIPS standards may also take enforcement actions against firms that falsely claim compliance with the GIPS standards.

Firms may also use the following language to replace the first sentence in this required disclosure: “GIPS® is a registered trademark owned by CFA Institute.” See the GIPS Standards Trademark Usage Guidelines on the CFA Institute website ([www.cfainstitute.org](http://www.cfainstitute.org)) for additional guidance on the proper use of “GIPS”.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions