---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 4.C.48
## Standard for Firms
When the [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]] includes THEORETICAL PERFORMANCE AS [[SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION]], the FIRM MUST:
- Disclose that the results are theoretical, are not based on the performance of actual assets, and if the THEORETICAL PERFORMANCE was derived from the retroactive or prospective application of a model.
- Disclose a basic description of the methodology and assumptions used to calculate the THEORETICAL PERFORMANCE sufficient for the PROSPECTIVE CLIENT or PROSPECTIVE INVESTOR to interpret the THEORETICAL PERFORMANCE, including if it is based on model performance, backtested performance, or hypothetical performance.
- Disclose whether the THEORETICAL PERFORMANCE reflects the deduction of actual or estimated [[INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE|INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES]], TRANSACTION COSTS, or other fees and charges that an actual client PORTFOLIO would have paid or will pay.
- Clearly label the THEORETICAL PERFORMANCE as [[SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION]].
## Discussion
To be presented as supplemental information in a GIPS Composite Report, theoretical performance must relate to the respective composite. The following are examples of theoretical performance that may be included in a GIPS Composite Report as supplemental information:
- Results created by applying a composite investment strategy or methodology to historical data to indicate how a strategy constructed with the benefit of hindsight would have performed during a certain period in the past had the strategy been in existence during that period.
- Ex ante performance that is linked to actual composite performance, or that is calculated using actual composite performance.
- Results that include the effect of currency hedging that has been applied after-the-fact to the composite when the composite was not originally managed including the currency hedging strategy, and the hedging is not part of the actual composite returns.

When theoretical performance is included as supplemental information in a GIPS Composite Report, a firm is required to include a number of disclosures to ensure that the recipients of the report, including prospective clients, understand the nature of the information being presented. Among the required disclosures are the source of the theoretical performance, the methodology and assumptions used to calculate the theoretical performance, and the treatment of fees and costs.

Firms must also clearly label the theoretical performance as supplemental information.
### Sample Disclosure:
“A return history has been constructed for the period from 1 January 2015 through 31 December 2018 that reflects the application of an investment model used by XYZ Investment Management. The results are theoretical and are not based on the performance of actual portfolios. The return history is derived from the retroactive application of a model. Taking the constituents of the large-cap index at each month end, those securities that have an above-average dividend yield and an above-average dividend payout ratio were identified and reweighted by market capitalization. The next-month’s performance was then applied to those stock weights to derive a model return for the month. These monthly model returns are then linked to provide annual returns. The theoretical performance presented does not reflect the deduction of investment management fees, transaction costs, or other fees and charges.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions