---
tags: []
---
Links: [[4. Composite Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 4.C.35
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM has adopted a SIGNIFICANT CASH FLOW policy for the [[COMPOSITE]], the FIRM MUST disclose how the FIRM defines a SIGNIFICANT CASH FLOW for the COMPOSITE and for which periods.
## Discussion
A significant cash flow is defined as the level at which the firm determines that one or more client-directed external cash flows may temporarily prevent the firm from implementing the composite strategy. The cash flow may be defined by the firm as a single flow or an aggregate of a number of flows within a stated period. The measure of significance must be determined as either a specific monetary amount (e.g., €50,000,000) or a percentage of portfolio assets (based on the most recent valuation). If a firm has adopted a significant cash flow policy for a specific composite, the firm must disclose how the firm defines a significant cash flow for that composite and for which periods.
### Sample Disclosures:
“Firm ABC defines a significant cash flow for the European Developed Markets Equity Composite as an external cash flow within a portfolio equal to or greater than €50,000,000. If a portfolio experiences a cash inflow of €50,000,000 or more during a calendar month, it is removed from the composite for that month. Following the policy for inclusion of new portfolios in the composite, if the cash level is 5% or less of the portfolio’s assets at month end, the portfolio will be returned to the composite in the following month. A cash outflow of €50,000,000 or more during a calendar month will trigger removal of a portfolio from the composite for that month. The portfolio will be returned to the composite in the month following the outflow if it continues to meet other composite criteria, such as size. A portfolio may be removed from a composite prior to the month of the actual cash outflow if there is a significant buildup of cash to prepare for the outflow. The significant cash flow policy for the European Developed Markets Equity Composite was adopted in May 2017.”

“A Significant Cash Flow (SCF) policy was adopted for the Large-Cap Growth composite starting 1 February 2015. The SCF policy is triggered by a net cash inflow or outflow of 15% or more during a calendar month. If a portfolio in the composite experiences a 15% or greater cash inflow during a calendar month, it is removed from the composite for that month. If the cash level is 10% or less of portfolio assets at month-end, the portfolio will be returned to the composite in the following month. A cash outflow of 15% or more will trigger removal of a portfolio from the composite. The portfolio will be returned to the composite in the month following the outflow if it continues to meet other composite criteria, such as size.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions