---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 4.C.11
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose the current [[FEE SCHEDULE]] appropriate to PROSPECTIVE CLIENTS or PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS.
- When presenting performance to a PROSPECTIVE CLIENT for a standalone PORTFOLIO, the [[FEE SCHEDULE]] MUST reflect the [[FEE SCHEDULE]] for a standalone PORTFOLIO managed according to that strategy.
- When presenting performance of a COMPOSITE that includes [[CARVE-OUT|CARVE-OUTS]] to a PROSPECTIVE CLIENT for a multi-asset strategy PORTFOLIO, the [[FEE SCHEDULE]] MUST reflect the [[FEE SCHEDULE]] for a multi-asset strategy PORTFOLIO managed according to that strategy.
- When presenting a WRAP FEE COMPOSITE to a WRAP FEE PROSPECTIVE CLIENT, the [[FEE SCHEDULE]] MUST reflect the total WRAP FEE.
- When presenting a [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]] to a PROSPECTIVE INVESTOR for a POOLED FUND included in the [[COMPOSITE]], the FIRM MUST disclose the POOLED FUND’S current [[FEE SCHEDULE]] and [[EXPENSE RATIO]].
## Discussion
Firms must disclose the current fee schedule that is applicable to prospective clients or prospective investors for the specific composite. The fee schedule can be asset based, performance based, or a combination of both. Determining which fee schedule is appropriate depends on the recipient of the information.
### Determining Fee Schedule Based On Prospect Type
#### Prospective Client for a Standalone Portfolio
A standalone portfolio is a portfolio that is not a portion of a larger portfolio. If the performance of a composite is being presented to a prospective client for a standalone portfolio, the fee schedule must reflect the fee schedule for a standalone portfolio managed according to that strategy.
#### Prospective Client for a Multi-Asset-Class Strategy Portfolio When the Composite Includes Carve-Outs
If the performance of a multi-asset-class strategy model composite that includes carve-outs is being presented to a prospective client as supplemental information to the single-asset-class composites that represent the “building blocks” for the strategy, the fee schedule must reflect the fee schedule for a multi-asset-class portfolio managed according to the strategy, not the fees associated with the individual building blocks. The same is true if the building blocks do not include carve-outs. The firm may provide the fee schedules for the individual building blocks for the strategy, in addition to the fee schedule for the multi-asset-class strategy, if it wishes to do so. Note that the firm must also present the GIPS Composite Reports for the underlying, building block composites to the prospective client. (See Provision [[3.A.2]].)
#### Wrap Fee Prospective Client
If a wrap fee composite is being presented to a wrap fee prospective client, the fee schedule must reflect the total wrap fee that will be charged to the wrap fee prospective client. The firm may also present the fee schedule that it charges for managing the wrap fee portfolios, which is a component of the total wrap fee, but this disclosure must be in addition to the total wrap fee schedule. Firms should also consider disclosing when clients are expected to incur significant trade away fees. Trade away fees, also known as step-out fees, are fees charged on trade orders that a portfolio manager for a wrap fee portfolio places with a broker/dealer other than the broker/dealer designated by the wrap fee sponsor.
#### Prospective Investor for a Pooled Fund Included in the Composite
When presenting performance to a prospective investor for a pooled fund, a firm may provide a GIPS Pooled Fund Report that includes performance of that pooled fund. If the pooled fund is included in a composite, the firm may instead provide a GIPS Composite Report to the prospective investor. If the firm provides a GIPS Composite Report to the prospective investor, the firm must include the fee schedule that is appropriate to the pooled fund, rather than (or in addition to) the fee schedule for the composite. If the pooled fund has multiple fee schedules, the firm may use the highest fee schedule as the appropriate fee that can be used for all prospective investors. The firm may also include multiple fee schedules in the GIPS Composite Report.

Firms must present the total expense ratio that is applicable to prospective investors for the specific pooled fund. The pooled fund expense ratio is the ratio of total pooled fund expenses to average net assets. The expense ratio should not reflect transaction costs. The expense ratio gives prospective investors important insight into the total fees and expenses involved in an investment in the fund. For example, a pooled fund expense ratio of 2% indicates that an investor will pay $20 in expenses each year for every $1,000 invested, in addition to transaction costs. An expense ratio also helps investors compare expenses across funds, because even a small difference in fees can have a significant effect over time.

If the pooled fund has multiple share classes, the firm may present multiple expense ratios or may present only the expense ratio appropriate to the prospective investor. The firm may also use the highest expense ratio as the expense ratio that can be used for all prospective investors of the fund. Expense ratios must reflect any performance-based fees or carried interest, if accrued or charged to the pooled fund.

Because expense ratios can change over time, firms must determine which expense ratio to present. A firm might choose to present the expense ratio as of the most recent annual period end, or the last known expense ratio. When the expense ratio has had a material change resulting from a change in assets or costs, the firm should present a more current expense ratio that reflects what a prospective investor is likely to pay at the current time.

Pooled fund expense ratios that are calculated for periods of less than one year must be annualized. For example, assume that a pooled fund starts on 1 April, and the firm calculates an expense ratio of 0.75% for the period from 1 April 2019 through 31 December 2019. The firm must present an annualized rate of 1.00%, representing a pooled fund expense ratio for the entire year, rather than the 0.75% that represents an expense ratio for only nine months. Presenting an annualized expense ratio facilitates the comparison of expense ratios across funds and firms. Firms may also present the non-annualized expense ratio but must clearly disclose or indicate that the expense ratio is not annualized.

When a firm uses a single GIPS Composite Report for prospective investors for multiple pooled funds that are included in the composite, it must disclose fee schedules and expense ratios for each pooled fund. The firm may instead choose to tailor the GIPS Composite Report to include the fee schedule and expense ratio that are appropriate for the prospective investor.

The fee schedule presented to a prospective client or prospective investor is typically listed by asset level ranges and should be appropriate to the particular prospective client or prospective investor. The fee schedule must be current. Although a current fee schedule may not assist a prospective client or prospective investor when interpreting historical performance because the actual fees paid may differ from the fee schedule disclosed, it is the most relevant to the prospective client or prospective investor. The actual fee that the prospective client or prospective investor may pay (if it hires the firm) could also differ from the fee schedule disclosed in the GIPS Composite Report. For example, a prospective client or prospective investor may be able to negotiate a lower fee.

This disclosure requirement is not satisfied if the firm does not include the fee schedule and expense ratio, if applicable, in the GIPS Composite Report and instead makes reference to another document that includes the fee schedule or expense ratio, such as Form ADV, which is a US regulatory document, or a fund prospectus. The fee schedule and expense ratios may be an exhibit attached to the GIPS Composite Report.
### Sample Disclosures for Types of Fee Schedules
#### Sample Disclosure for a Composite to a Prospective Client for a Segregated Account:
“The annual fee schedule is as follows:
	First €10 million      0.80%  
	Next €40 million      0.60%  
	Above €50 million    0.30%”

#### Sample Disclosure for a Model Composite That Includes Carve-Outs or Other “Building Blocks” to a Prospective Client for a Multi-Asset-Class Strategy Portfolio:
"The current standard management fee schedule for a segregated account managed to the Balanced strategy, which is a blend of the Large-Cap Equity Composite and the Intermediate Term Fixed Income Composite, is as follows:
	0.70% on the first $25 million
	0.55% on the next $75 million
	0.45% on all assets above $100 million
The fee schedules for the Large-Cap Equity Composite and the Intermediate-Term Fixed Income Composite are as follows:
	*Large-Cap Equity Composite*
	0.90% on the first $25 million 0.70% on the next $75 million 0.60% on all assets above $100 million	
	*Intermediate-Term Fixed Income Composite*
	0.50% on the first $25 million  
	0.40% on the next $75 million  
	0.30% on all assets about $100 million"
#### Sample Disclosure for a Wrap Fee Composite:
“The standard wrap fee schedule in effect is 3.00% of total assets. The wrap fee includes transaction costs, investment management fees, custody fees, and other administrative fees.”
#### Sample Disclosure for a Composite That Includes a Pooled Fund:
“The investment management fee schedule for Global Equity segregated accounts is as follows: 1.00% on the first $25 million; 0.75% thereafter. The investment management fee schedule for the Global Equity Pooled Fund, which is included in the Global Equity Composite, is 0.80% on all assets. The total expense ratio as of 31 December 2019 for the Global Equity Pooled Fund was 0.95%.”
#### Sample Disclosure for a Composite That Includes Two Pooled Funds:

|Vehicle|Fee Schedule|Expense Ratio|
|---|---|---|
|Segregated account|0.50% on all assets|n/a|
|Limited partnership|0.45% on all assets|0.75%|
|Collective fund|0.40% on all assets|0.68%|
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions