---
tags: []
---
Links: [[4. Composite Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 4.C.39
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM chooses to not present the number of PORTFOLIOS in the COMPOSITE because there are five or fewer PORTFOLIOS in the [[COMPOSITE]], the FIRM MUST disclose that the COMPOSITE contains five or fewer PORTFOLIOS or use similar language.
## Discussion
Each GIPS Composite Report must include information about the number of portfolios included in the composite. These figures must be presented as of the end of each annual period that is included in the GIPS Composite Report. (See Provision [[4.A.1.f]].) This requirement provides information to prospective clients on whether the composite is composed of a small number of portfolios or many.

In cases where there are five portfolios or fewer in a composite at period end, the firm may choose to not present the actual number of portfolios in the composite. The firm might choose to do this to protect the identity and confidentiality of its clients. Because firms must include information about the number of portfolios in the composite, however, firms must either state or indicate that the composite contains “five or fewer portfolios”, “fewer than six portfolios”, (or use similar language) or present the actual number of portfolios in the composite.

Note that “five or fewer portfolios in the composite” refers to the number of portfolios in the composite at the annual period end, not the number of portfolios in the composite for the full year.  
If there were four portfolios in the composite for the full year but seven portfolios in the composite at the annual period end, the firm would be required to present the actual number of portfolios (in this example, seven) in the composite at the annual period end.
### Sample Disclosure:
“ABC’s policy is to not present the number of portfolios in the composite when there are fewer than six portfolios included in the composite as of year end.”
### Sample Disclosure as Part of a Table:
The column where the number of portfolios in the composite at the annual period end is presented would simply note “<6" or "≤5" for any annual period end for which there were five or fewer portfolios in the composite at the annual period end.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions