---
tags: []
---
Links: [[4. Composite Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 4.C.18
## Standard for Firms
If estimated [[TRANSACTION COSTS]] are used, the FIRM MUST disclose:
- That estimated [[TRANSACTION COSTS]] were used.
- The estimated [[TRANSACTION COSTS]] used and how they were determined.
## Discussion
Gross-of-fees and net-of-fees composite returns must reflect the deduction of transaction costs, which are the costs of buying or selling investments. Firms may use either actual or estimated transaction costs when calculating returns. Estimated transaction costs may be used only for portfolios for which the actual transaction costs are not known. Provision [[2.A.13]] provides guidance on the use of estimated transaction costs.

If estimated transaction costs are used in calculating returns, there must be a disclosure that estimated transaction costs were used. A firm must also disclose the estimated transaction costs used and how they were determined. A firm might, for example, determine estimated transaction costs based on other portfolios whose transaction costs are known.

In some markets, brokers offer zero-commission trades. If a portfolio is paying zero commissions, then it is appropriate to calculate portfolio gross-of-fees returns and net-of-fees returns that reflect zero transaction costs. When a composite includes portfolios that pay zero commissions, firms should disclose this fact. Not disclosing this fact could be misleading.
### Sample Disclosures:
“Some portfolios in the composite do not pay explicit transaction costs for security purchases and sales. Estimated transaction costs for these portfolios are used, and these are determined based on the average transaction cost per share incurred by portfolios in the composite that pay explicit transaction costs. The average transaction cost was determined to be $0.031 per share. We apply a model transaction cost per share of $0.04 to each investment transaction.”

“The transaction costs for some portfolios in the composite are not known and must be estimated. The estimated transaction costs for these portfolios is 12 Swiss francs per trade.”

“Effective 1 January 2020, a majority of portfolio trades are made through brokers that no longer charge commissions on standard equity trades. Portfolios that trade options and futures continue to pay transaction costs for options/futures contract trades.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions