---
tags: []
---
Links: [[4. Composite Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 4.C.34
## Standard for Firms
If a PORTFOLIO-WEIGHTED CUSTOM BENCHMARK is used, the FIRM MUST disclose:
- That the BENCHMARK is rebalanced using the weighted average returns of the [[BENCHMARK|BENCHMARKS]] of all of the PORTFOLIOS included in the [[COMPOSITE]].
- The frequency of the rebalancing.
- The components that constitute the PORTFOLIO-WEIGHTED CUSTOM BENCHMARK, including the weights that each component represents, as of the most recent annual period end.
- That the components that constitute the PORTFOLIO-WEIGHTED CUSTOM BENCHMARK, including the weights that each component represents, are available for prior periods upon request.
## Discussion
Firms may use a portfolio-weighted custom benchmark, which is created using the benchmarks of the individual portfolios in the composite. If such a benchmark is used, firms must disclose that the benchmark is calculated using the weighted average returns of the benchmarks of all of the portfolios included in the composite, along with the frequency of the rebalancing. Firms are not required to disclose how the underlying portfolio benchmarks and weights have changed each period.

Additionally, in the spirit of full disclosure and fair representation, firms must disclose the components that constitute the portfolio-weighted custom benchmark, including the weight that each component represents, as of the most recent annual period end. It is also required that firms disclose that the information regarding the components of the portfolio-weighted custom benchmark, as well as the component weights, is available for prior periods upon request.
### Sample Disclosure:
“The Long US Government/Credit Custom Benchmark is calculated using the benchmarks of the portfolios in the composite. The benchmark is rebalanced monthly based on the beginning values of portfolios included in the composite. As of 31 December 2018, the breakdown of the benchmark is 88.2% XYZ US Long Government/Credit Index and 11.8% XYZ US Long Government/Credit A+ Index. The breakdown of the custom benchmark for different time periods is available upon request.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions