---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 4.C.44
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose if [[GROSS-OF-FEES]] or NET-OF-FEES returns are used to calculate presented risk measures.
## Discussion
To help prospective clients interpret the risk measures presented in a GIPS Composite Report, the firm must disclose which returns are used in the calculation of the presented risk measures. This applies to both required risk measures (e.g., the three-year annualized ex post standard deviation and internal dispersion) and any additional risk measures. As discussed in Provision [[2.B.7]], it is recommended that firms use gross-of-fees returns when calculating risk measures.

For wrap fee composites, it is sometimes not possible for a firm to calculate gross-of-fees returns. Because of the bundled fee for wrap fee composites, the firm may be unable to identify the transactions costs that must be deducted from the return on investments to arrive at gross-of-fees returns. Firms may therefore use pure gross-of-fees returns (the return on investments that is not reduced by any transaction costs incurred during the period) or returns that are net of the entire wrap fee when calculating risk measures presented in a GIPS Composite Report for a wrap fee composite.
### Sample Disclosures:
“Gross-of-fees returns were used to calculate the three-year annualized ex post standard deviation of the composite.”

“Gross returns were used to calculate all risk measures presented in this GIPS Composite Report.”

“Net-of-fees returns were used to calculate the three-year annualized ex post standard deviation and the internal dispersion of the composite.”
### Sample Disclosure for a Wrap Fee Composite:
“Pure gross returns were used to calculate the three-year annualized ex post standard deviation and the internal dispersion of the composite. A pure gross return is the return on investments that is not reduced by any transactions costs incurred during the period.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions