---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 4.C.13
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose the [[COMPOSITE INCEPTION DATE]].
## Discussion
When reviewing the performance data in a GIPS Composite Report, it is important that prospective clients have sufficient information regarding the length of the composite track record to put the performance presented in the GIPS Composite Report in perspective. Therefore, the inception date of the composite being presented in the GIPS Composite Report must be disclosed. Prospective clients can then compare the periods of performance presented in the GIPS Composite Report with the length of the composite’s track record, and they can request additional information for historical periods not included in the GIPS Composite Report. If there has been a break in the performance record of a composite, the initial inception date before the break is the date that would be disclosed.
### Sample Disclosures:
“The Small Cap Value Composite has an inception date of 1 May 2010, the date on which the first portfolio in the composite was fully invested.”

“The Global Fixed Income Composite has an inception date of 1 November 2015. There was a break in performance from 1 March 2019 through 30 November 2019. During that period, there were no portfolios in the composite. Composite performance began again on 1 December 2019.”

“The Asia Pacific Equities Composite has an inception date of 1 March 1998. Returns for periods prior to the 10-year track record presented in this report are available upon request.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions