---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 4.C.45
## Standard for Firms
For OVERLAY STRATEGY [[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]], the FIRM MUST disclose:
- The methodology used to calculate COMPOSITE OVERLAY EXPOSURE.
- If collateral and collateral income are reflected in the COMPOSITE returns.
## Discussion
According to Provision [[2.A.6]], for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020, overlay exposure must be calculated by using one of the following options:
	1. the notional exposure of the overlay strategies being managed;
	2. the value of the underlying portfolios being overlaid; or
	3. a specified target exposure as of the beginning of the period, which can either be defined as a target exposure or determined by a formula used to calculate the target exposure for each period.
Because there are different allowable calculation methods, firms must disclose the methodology used in calculating composite overlay exposure. This disclosure will help prospective clients interpret the information presented.

Overlay strategies typically require collateral (sometimes referred to as margin or a margin account). The collateral provided may be for the required minimum or for a larger amount. The required minimum amount may be determined by law or regulation. There are different ways the collateral can be managed, which can affect the overlay portfolio return calculation. Firms must establish a policy for the treatment of collateral in the portfolio return calculation on a composite-specific basis. To help prospective clients interpret the composite returns presented, the firm must disclose whether collateral and collateral income are included in composite returns.
### Sample Disclosure:
“Composite overlay exposure represents the total value of all underlying portfolios being overlaid in this composite. Returns include collateral and the associated income.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions