---
tags: []
---
Links: [[4. Composite Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 4.C.36
## Standard for Firms
For [[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]] with at least three annual periods of performance, the FIRM MUST disclose if the three-year annualized [[EX POST]] [[STANDARD DEVIATION]] of the COMPOSITE and/or BENCHMARK is not presented because 36 monthly returns are not available.
## Discussion
For periods ending on or after 1 January 2011, firms must present the three-year annualized ex post standard deviation of the composite and benchmark, which must be calculated using 36 monthly returns, as of each annual period end.

The 2010 edition of the GIPS standards required that a firm disclose, in all cases, if the three-year annualized ex post standard deviation of the composite and/or benchmark is not presented because 36 monthly returns are not available. The 2020 edition of the GIPS standards modifies this requirement. This disclosure is required only if the three-year annualized ex post standard deviation is not presented for composites that have at least three annual periods of performance. This change applies to all periods presented in a GIPS Composite Report.

If a composite has at least three annual periods of performance but 36 monthly returns are not available for the composite, firms are not required to present the three-year annualized ex post standard deviation for either the benchmark or the composite. This scenario often applies to private market investment composites because they are not required to have monthly returns. Firms must disclose that 36 monthly returns are not available for the composite. (If private market investment composites do have monthly valuations and 36 monthly returns are available, the three-year annualized ex post standard deviation must be presented.) If 36 monthly returns are not available for the composite but are available for the benchmark, a firm is not required to present the three-year annualized ex post standard deviation for the benchmark but may do so.

If 36 monthly returns are not available for the benchmark but are available for the composite, firms are required to present only the three-year annualized ex post standard deviation for the composite. In this instance, because 36 monthly returns are not available for the benchmark, firms must not present a three-year annualized ex post standard deviation for the benchmark using data points other than monthly. Firms must disclose that 36 monthly returns are not available for the benchmark.
### Sample Disclosure If 36 Monthly Returns Are Available for the Composite but Not for the Benchmark:
“The three-year annualized ex post standard deviation of the benchmark is not presented because the benchmark returns are calculated quarterly.”
### Sample Disclosure If 36 Monthly Returns Are Not Available for the Composite:
“The three-year annualized ex post standard deviation of the composite and benchmark are not presented because the composite returns are calculated quarterly.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions