---
tags: []
---
Links: [[4. Composite Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 4.C.40
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM chooses to not present the [[INTERNAL DISPERSION]] of individual PORTFOLIO returns because there are five or fewer PORTFOLIOS in the COMPOSITE for the full year, the FIRM MUST disclose that the [[INTERNAL DISPERSION]] measure is not applicable or use similar language.
## Discussion
The internal dispersion of the individual portfolio annual returns must be presented for each annual period that is included in a GIPS Composite Report. In cases where there are five or fewer portfolios in a composite for the full year, the measure of internal dispersion is not required to be presented. Because firms must include some information about the internal dispersion of individual portfolio returns, however, firms must indicate that the internal dispersion measure is not applicable or include similar language. The firm may instead choose to present an internal dispersion measure.

Note that “five or fewer portfolios in the composite” refers to the number of portfolios in the composite for the full year, not the number of portfolios in the composite at the annual period end. For example, if there were four portfolios in the composite for the full year but seven portfolios in the composite at year-end, the firm would not be required to present the measure of internal dispersion for the composite.
### Sample Disclosure:
“ABC’s policy is to not present the internal dispersion when there are five or fewer portfolios included in the composite for the full year.”
### Sample Disclosure as Part of a Table:
The column where the measure of internal dispersion is presented for each annual period would simply note N.A. for any annual period for which there were five or fewer portfolios included in the composite for the full year.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions