---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 4.C.4
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose the [[COMPOSITE DESCRIPTION]].
## Discussion
The composite description is defined as general information regarding the investment mandate, objective, or strategy of the composite. The composite description may be more abbreviated than the composite definition but must include all key features of the composite and must include enough information to allow a prospective client to understand the key characteristics of the composite’s investment mandate, objective, or strategy, including:
- the material risks of the composite’s strategy,
- how leverage, derivatives, and short positions may be used, if they are a material part of the strategy, and
- if illiquid investments are a material part of the strategy.

The composite definition goes a step further than the composite description and includes the detailed criteria that determine the assignment of portfolios to composites, such as investment constraints or restrictions. Although the composite description is a required disclosure, the composite definition is not a required disclosure. (See the discussion of Provision [[3.A.5]] for additional information regarding composite definitions and composite descriptions.)

The required disclosure of the composite description provides information about the composite’s investment strategy that is intended to help a prospective client who is considering an investment product or strategy and is reviewing a GIPS Composite Report for that product or strategy. The composite description should provide sufficient information to prospective clients to allow them to differentiate the significant features of the strategy from other strategies within the firm and to compare products across firms. The disclosed strategy features will likely affect both the historical and expected risk and returns. Along with the required benchmark description (see Provision [[4.C.5]]), the GIPS Composite Report will allow prospective clients to understand both the investment strategy employed and the benchmark against which the composite’s performance is evaluated. This will help prospective clients to compare investments across firms.

If leverage, derivatives, and short positions may be used, and they are a material part of the strategy, this must be disclosed in the composite description. Provision [[4.C.17]] requires that the firm disclose how leverage, derivatives, and short positions have been used historically, if material. Taken together, these two required disclosures provide a more complete picture about the presence, use, and extent of leverage, derivatives, and short positions. When determining what would be material, the firm must consider whether the disclosure of how leverage, derivatives, and/or short positions may be used and/or have been used historically is likely to affect a prospective client’s or prospective investor’s view of the risk involved in the strategy. If so, it would be misleading for the firm to fail to disclose their use to these prospective clients or prospective investors when describing the strategy.

Generally, all investment products or strategies have some degree of inherent risk (e.g., market risk), but it is not intended that the composite description identifies every risk of the strategy. Instead, firms must identify those material risks of the strategy, if any, and must disclose those risks. For example, investment concentration, correlation (or lack thereof), liquidity, and exposure to counterparties are features that may need to be included in the composite description.

The key characteristics of some strategies may change given market events. Firms should periodically review composite descriptions to ensure they are current.
#### Sample Disclosures:
“The Large Cap Equity Growth Composite includes all institutional portfolios that invest in large-capitalization US stocks that are considered to have growth in earnings prospects that is superior to that of the average company within the benchmark, the XYZ Large Cap Growth Index. The targeted tracking error between the composite and the benchmark is less than 3%.”

“The Leveraged Bond Composite includes all segregated accounts invested in a diversified range of high-yield corporate and government bonds with the aim of providing investors with a high level of income while seeking to maximize the total return. The portfolios are invested in domestic and international fixed income securities of varying maturities. The strategy allows investment in exchange-traded and OTC derivative contracts (including, but not limited to, options, futures, swaps, and forward currency contracts) for the purposes of risk, volatility, and currency exposure management. The strategy allows leverage up to but not exceeding twice the value of a portfolio’s investments through the use of repurchase financing arrangements with counterparties. Inherent in derivative instrument investments is the risk of counterparty default. Leverage may also magnify losses as well as gains to the extent that leverage is employed. The benchmark is the XYZ Capital Global Aggregate Bond Index.”

A Sample List of Composite Descriptions can be found in Appendix D of the GIPS standards.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions