---
tags: []
---
Links: [[4. Composite Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 4.C.5
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose:
- The [[BENCHMARK DESCRIPTION]], which MUST include the key features of the BENCHMARK or the name of the BENCHMARK for a readily recognized index or other point of reference.
- The [[PERIODICITY]] of the BENCHMARK if BENCHMARK returns are calculated less frequently than monthly.
## Discussion
Firms are required to disclose a description of each benchmark included in a GIPS Composite Report. The benchmark description is defined as general information regarding the investments, structure, and/or characteristics of the benchmark, and it must include the key features of the benchmark. In the case of a widely recognized benchmark, such as the S&P 500® Index, the name of the benchmark will satisfy this requirement. (S&P 500® is a registered trademark of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC.) Each firm must decide for itself whether a benchmark is widely recognized. If the firm is not certain as to whether the benchmark is widely known, the firm must include the benchmark description.

If the benchmark returns are calculated less frequently than monthly, the periodicity of the benchmark must be disclosed.
### Sample Disclosure for a Widely Recognized Benchmark:
“The benchmark is the S&P 500® Index.”
### Sample Disclosure for a Benchmark That Is Not Widely Recognized:
“The benchmark is the XYZ World Index, which is designed to measure the equity market performance of developed market countries. The benchmark is market-cap weighted and is composed of all XYZ country-specific developed market indices.”
### Sample Disclosure for an Index with Returns Calculated Less Frequently than Monthly:
“The ABC Property Index (API) is a quarterly, unleveraged composite total return for private commercial real estate properties held for investment purposes only. All properties in the API have been acquired, at least in part, on behalf of tax-exempt institutional investors.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions