---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 4.C.38
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose any change to the GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT resulting from the correction of a MATERIAL ERROR. Following the correction of the GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT, this disclosure MUST be included for a minimum of one year and for as long as it is relevant to interpreting the track record. The disclosure is not REQUIRED to be included in a GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT that is provided to a PROSPECTIVE CLIENT or PROSPECTIVE INVESTOR that did not receive the GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT containing the MATERIAL ERROR.
## Discussion
Firms claiming compliance with the GIPS standards are likely to be faced with situations in which errors are discovered that must be specifically addressed. An error, which can be qualitative or quantitative, can be related to any component of a GIPS Composite Report that is missing or inaccurate. Errors in GIPS Composite Reports can result from, but are not limited to, incorrect, incomplete, or missing:
- composite returns or assets,
- firm assets,
- benchmark returns,
- number of portfolios in a composite,
- three-year annualized ex post standard deviation, or
- disclosures.

Any material error in a GIPS Composite Report must be corrected and disclosed in a revised GIPS Composite Report. A firm must define materiality within its error correction policies and procedures.

To adhere to this requirement, a firm must determine the criteria it will use to determine materiality. The following is a definition of materiality that firms might find useful as a starting point for their determination of materiality. “An error is material if the magnitude of the omission or misstatement of performance information, in light of surrounding circumstances, makes it probable that the judgment of a reasonable person relying on the information would have been changed by the omission or misstatement.” Firms should have a defined process for determining the objective criteria it will use in determining materiality.

Disclosure of the change in the corrected GIPS Composite Report resulting from a material error must be included in the GIPS Composite Report for a minimum of 12 months following the correction of the report and for as long as it is relevant to interpreting the track record. The firm must consider the underlying principles of the GIPS standards, which are fair representation and full disclosure, when determining how long the disclosure will be included in the GIPS Composite Report that contained the material error.

Disclosure of the change resulting from a material error is not required to be included in a GIPS Composite Report that is provided to new prospective clients or prospective investors.

The discussion for Provision [[1.A.20]] provides additional information on error correction, including the determination of materiality, the actions that must be taken when an error in a GIPS Composite Report is discovered, and an explanation of who must receive the revised GIPS Composite Report.
### Sample Disclosure:
“This GIPS Composite Report includes a correction of the information provided for the XYZ Index. The annual return for the XYZ Index for 2017 was originally presented as 3.4%. The correct return is 4.3%, as shown in this revised GIPS Composite Report.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions