---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 4.C.14
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose the [[COMPOSITE CREATION DATE]].
## Discussion
Firms must disclose the composite creation date, which is the date on which the firm first grouped one or more portfolios together to create the composite. The composite creation date is not necessarily the same as the composite inception date. The composite inception date is the initial date of the composite’s performance record and is a required disclosure. (See Provision [[4.C.13]].) The composite creation date can be significantly after the composite inception date, depending on when the firm first grouped the individual portfolios together to create the composite. This information allows prospective clients to compare the composite creation date with the composite inception date to determine whether the firm grouped portfolios together into a composite retroactively or created the composite at the beginning of the composite’s performance track record. The intent of this disclosure is to enable prospective clients to determine if the composite was created with the benefit of hindsight.

For those firms that created composites many years ago, it may be impossible to know the specific day a composite was created. Some firms disclose a composite creation date as a month, or even a year, when the composite was created in the very distant past. Newly created composites should have more-precise composite creation dates.

### Sample Disclosures:
“The Growth Opportunities Composite was created on 17 July 2019. This is the date on which portfolios were first grouped together to create the composite.”

“The Core Fixed Income Composite was created in November 2009.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions