---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 4.C.12
## Standard for Firms
If the [[FEE SCHEDULE]] includes [[PERFORMANCE-BASED FEE|PERFORMANCE-BASED FEES]] or [[CARRIED INTEREST]], the FIRM MUST disclose the [[PERFORMANCE-BASED FEE DESCRIPTION]] or CARRIED INTEREST DESCRIPTION.
## Discussion
Sufficient information must be included with any fee schedule included in a GIPS Composite Report to allow prospective clients to understand the nature of the firm’s compensation.  
If performance-based fees or carried interest are included in the fee schedule, the firm must disclose a description of the performance-based fees and/or carried interest. Relevant information for a performance-based fee includes the performance-based fee rate, hurdle rate, clawback, high watermark, reset frequency, accrual frequency, crystallization schedule, and on what basis fees are charged. Relevant information for carried interest includes the hurdle rate, crystallization schedule, and high watermark.
### Sample Disclosures:
“The standard fee schedule is as follows:  
Management fee is 0.75% per annum, charged on a quarterly basis on the period-end value of the portfolio assets.

Performance fee:
The performance fee is earned when the portfolio’s total return, reduced by the pro rata accrued fixed management fee, exceeds the benchmark return (the excess return) and the portfolio’s net asset value is above the high watermark, which is the portfolio’s net asset value as of the last year end when the performance fee crystallized. The performance fee is 10% of the excess return, which is calculated arithmetically, accrued daily, and crystallizes annually. Further details of the performance fee calculation are available upon request.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions