---
tags: []
---
Links: [[4. Composite Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 4.C.7
## Standard for Firms
When presenting NET-OF-FEES returns, the FIRM MUST disclose:
- If any other fees are deducted in addition to [[INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE|INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES]] and [[TRANSACTION COSTS]].
- If NET-OF-FEES returns are net of any [[PERFORMANCE-BASED FEE|PERFORMANCE-BASED FEES]] or [[CARRIED INTEREST]].
- If model or actual [[INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE|INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES]] are used.
- If model [[INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE|INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES]] are used, and COMPOSITE [[GROSS-OF-FEES]] returns are not presented, the model [[INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE]] used to calculate NET-OF-FEES returns.
- If model [[INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE|INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES]] are used, the methodology used to calculate NET-OF-FEES returns.
## Discussion
When presenting returns, it is important that there are sufficient disclosures so that prospective clients can understand what the returns actually represent.

Net-of-fees returns for composites are required to reflect only the deduction of transaction costs and investment management fees. Investment management fees include both asset-based fees and performance-based fees or carried interest. Other expenses may also be deducted (e.g., custody fees). If other fees are deducted from the net-of-fees returns, this must be disclosed to help prospective clients understand the net-of-fees returns presented and to compare performance across firms. If the net-of-fees returns are net of any performance-based fees or carried interest, that must be disclosed as well.

In some markets, brokers offer zero-commission trades. If a portfolio is paying zero commissions, then it is appropriate to calculate portfolio net-of-fees returns that reflect zero transaction costs. When a composite includes portfolios that pay zero commissions, firms should disclose this fact. Not disclosing this fact could be misleading.

A firm must also disclose whether model or actual investment management fees are used to calculate net-of-fees returns. (See Provision [[2.A.31]] for an explanation of when model investment management fees may be used.) If gross-of-fees returns are presented along with the net-of-fees returns, prospective clients can easily determine the model fee used by deducting the net-of-fee returns from the gross-of-fee returns. For periods ending on or after 31 December 2020, however, if model investment management fees have been used and composite gross-of-fees returns are not presented, the firm must disclose the model fee used to calculate net-of-fees returns. The methodology used in the calculation of net-of-fees returns must be disclosed if model investment management fees are used.
### Sample Disclosure for Actual Fees:
“Net-of-fees returns are calculated using actual management fees, which include performance fees. These fees are accounted for on an accrual basis.”
### Sample Disclosure for Model Fees:
“Net-of-fees returns are calculated by reducing monthly composite returns by a model fee of 0.0830%. This equates to a model annual fee of 1.0%, which is the highest tier of the standard fee schedule.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions