---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: [[8. GIPS Advertising Guidelines]]
___
# 8.E.4
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST present BENCHMARK returns for the same BENCHMARK as presented in the corresponding GIPS REPORT, if the corresponding GIPS REPORT includes BENCHMARK returns. BENCHMARK returns MUST be of the same return type (TIME-WEIGHTED RETURNS or MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURNS), in the same currency, and for the same periods for which the POOLED FUND returns are presented.
## Discussion
As described in Provisions [[8.E.1]] and [[8.E.2]], firms that present performance in a GIPS Advertisement for a limited distribution pooled fund have various options for the time periods used in presenting time-weighted returns (TWRs) and money-weighted returns (MWRs). Once an option is selected, the firm must present the total returns for the benchmark(s) for the same periods as the pooled fund returns. The benchmark must be the same benchmark as presented in the corresponding GIPS Pooled Fund Report and must also be the same return type (TWR or MWR) and in the same currency as the pooled fund returns. If more than one benchmark is included in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report, the firm should consider whether multiple benchmarks should be presented in the GIPS Advertisement.

If the firm does not prepare a GIPS Pooled Fund Report for the limited distribution pooled fund (LDPF) but instead includes the LDPF in a composite for which a GIPS Composite Report is prepared, the benchmark presented in the GIPS Advertisement must be consistent with the benchmark that would be included in the corresponding GIPS Pooled Fund Report if a GIPS Pooled Fund Report for that LDPF were created.

This requirement is an acknowledgement that a comparison of benchmark and pooled fund returns will help the reader of the GIPS Advertisement determine how well the pooled fund has performed relative to the benchmark.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions