---
tags: []
---
Links: [[8. GIPS Advertising Guidelines]]
___
# 8.E.3
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST clearly label [[POOLED FUND]] returns as gross or net of [[TOTAL POOLED FUND FEES]].
## Discussion
Firms may present pooled fund returns as either gross or net of total pooled fund fees in a GIPS Advertisement and may also choose to present returns both gross and net of total pooled fund fees. For readers of the GIPS Advertisement to understand the nature of the returns being presented, all returns presented must be clearly labeled as gross of total pooled fund fees or net of total pooled fund fees.

A firm may present returns net of total pooled fund fees in a GIPS Advertisement even if the corresponding GIPS Pooled Fund Report includes only returns that are gross of total pooled fund fees. The firm may also present returns that are gross of total pooled fund fees even if the corresponding GIPS Pooled Fund Report presents only returns that are net of total pooled fund fees. The returns presented in the GIPS Advertisement must be consistent with the returns that would be included in the corresponding GIPS Pooled Fund Report.

If the firm does not prepare a GIPS Pooled Fund Report for the limited distribution pooled fund (LDPF) but instead includes the LDPF in a composite for which a GIPS Composite Report is prepared, the LDPF returns presented in a GIPS Advertisement, whether they are gross or net returns, must be consistent with the returns that would be included in the corresponding GIPS Pooled Fund Report for that LDPF if a GIPS Pooled Fund Report for that LDPF were created. (See Provision [[2.A.26]] for information regarding the calculation of time-weighted returns for pooled funds that are not included in composites and Provision [[2.A.29]] for information regarding the calculation of money-weighted returns for pooled funds that are not included in composites.)

Firms advertising performance results must adhere to all applicable laws and regulations, including those governing advertisements. In some jurisdictions, laws or regulations require performance in a pooled fund advertisement to be presented net of total pooled fund fees. Whether or not laws or regulations specify which returns must be presented in an advertisement, firms must clearly indicate whether returns are presented gross or net of total pooled fund fees so that the reader of the advertisement has a clear understanding of the returns that are presented.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions