---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: [[8. GIPS Advertising Guidelines]]
___
# 8.E.1
## Standard for Firms
If TIME-WEIGHTED RETURNS are presented in the corresponding [[GIPS REPORT]], the FIRM MUST present TIME-WEIGHTED RETURNS for the [[POOLED FUND]] according to one of the following:
- One-, three-, and five-year annualized returns through the most recent period. If the [[POOLED FUND]] has been in existence for less than five years, the FIRM MUST also present the annualized return since the POOLED FUND INCEPTION DATE.
- The period-to-date return in addition to one-, three-, and five-year annualized returns through the same period as presented in the corresponding [[GIPS REPORT]]. If the [[POOLED FUND]] has been in existence for less than five years, the FIRM MUST also present the annualized return since the POOLED FUND INCEPTION DATE.
- The period-to-date return in addition to five years of annual returns (or for each annual period since the POOLED FUND INCEPTION DATE if the [[POOLED FUND]] has been in existence for less than five years). The annual returns MUST be calculated through the same period as presented in the corresponding [[GIPS REPORT]].
- The annualized [[POOLED FUND]] return for the total period that includes all periods presented in the corresponding [[GIPS REPORT]], through either:
    - The most recent period end, or
    - The most recent annual period end.
## Discussion
Provision 8.E.1 does not require a firm presenting time-weighted returns in a GIPS Advertisement to include all four options (a through d) mentioned in the provision. Rather, a firm must present performance in accordance with one of the options described in the provision. A GIPS Advertisement must also adhere to all applicable laws and regulations governing advertisements.

Three of the four options in Provision 8.E.1 include the presentation of annualized pooled fund returns, which represent the geometric average annual compound return achieved over the defined period of more than one year. Annualized performance is permitted only for periods of one year or more.

The formula for calculating annualized performance is as follows:
- Annualized Return (%) = ((1 + _R_)_<sup>1/n</sup>_) – 1,

where _R_ is the cumulative return for the period, which is calculated by geometrically linking the sub-period returns during the period, and _n_ is the number of years in the period.

For example, assume a pooled fund’s cumulative return for a five-year period is 150.0%. It has a five-year average annual compound return, or annualized return, of 20.11%, which is calculated as:
- ((1+1.50)<sup>1/5</sup>) – 1 = 0.2011 = 20.11%.

If instead the 150% is earned over 12.5 years, the 12.5-year average annual compound return, or annualized return, is 7.61%, which is calculated as:
- ((1+1.50)<sup>1/12.5</sup>) – 1 = 0.0761 = 7.61%.

If the firm chooses to comply with Provision 8.E.1.a, it must present the one-, three-, and five-year annualized pooled fund returns through the most recent period end. If the pooled fund has been in existence for less than five years, the firm must also present the annualized pooled fund return from the pooled fund inception date through the most recent period end, in addition to the most recent one-year return (and the three-year annualized return, if the pooled fund has been in existence for three years or longer).

The most recent period-end date is as of the most recent month- or quarter-end date. For example, if preparing a GIPS Advertisement in May, the most recent quarter end would be 31 March and the most recent month end would be 30 April. The firm may choose whether to use month-end or quarter-end periods.

If the firm chooses to comply with Provision 8.E.1.b, it must present the period-to-date pooled fund return in addition to the one-, three-, and five-year annualized pooled fund returns through the same period as presented in the corresponding GIPS Pooled Fund Report. For example, if the GIPS Pooled Fund Report includes calendar-year annual returns, then the annualized returns in the GIPS Advertisements must be through the most recent 31 December. If the pooled fund has been in existence for less than five years, the firm must also present the annualized pooled fund return from the pooled fund inception date through the most recent period end (either month or quarter end) in addition to the one-year return (and the three-year annualized return, if the pooled fund has been in existence for three years or longer).

If the firm chooses to comply with Provision 8.E.1.c, it must present the period-to-date pooled fund return in addition to five years of annual pooled fund returns. If the pooled fund has been in existence for less than five years, the firm must present the annual pooled fund returns for each annual period since the pooled fund’s inception date. The annual returns must be calculated through the same period as presented in the corresponding GIPS Pooled Fund Report.

If the firm chooses to comply with Provision 8.E.1.d, it must present the annualized pooled fund return for the total period that includes all periods presented in the corresponding GIPS Pooled Fund Report through either: a) the most recent month or quarter period end or b) the most recent annual period end. If the pooled fund has been in existence for less than one year, the return must not be annualized.

In the spirit of fair representation and full disclosure, Provision [[8.A.9]] requires that limited distribution pooled fund (LDPF) returns included in a GIPS Advertisement must be derived from the returns that have been included in or that will be included in the corresponding GIPS Pooled Fund Report. This requirement is to ensure consistency in the performance reported by a firm. If a GIPS Advertisement is more current than the corresponding GIPS Pooled Fund Report, it is permissible to include more-recent performance in the GIPS Advertisement, as long as this performance will be included in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report when it is updated or would be included in the GIPS Report if it were issued as of the date of the GIPS Advertisement.

If the firm does not prepare a GIPS Pooled Fund Report for the LDPF but instead includes the LDPF in a composite for which a GIPS Composite Report is prepared, the LDPF returns presented in a GIPS Advertisement must be derived from the returns that would be included in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report for that LDPF if a GIPS Pooled Fund Report for that LDPF were created. (See Provision [[2.A.26]] for information regarding the calculation of time-weighted returns for pooled funds that are not included in composites.)
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions