---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 5.A.1.d
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST present in each GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT:
- The SINCE-INCEPTION MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURN for the BENCHMARK for the same periods as presented for the composite, unless the FIRM determines there is no appropriate BENCHMARK.
## Discussion
Benchmarks are important tools that aid in the planning, implementation, and evaluation of a composite’s investment policy. They also help facilitate discussions with prospective clients regarding the relationship between risk and return. As a result, firms are required to present the since-inception money-weighted return (SI-MWR) for the benchmark for the same periods as presented for the composite, unless the firm determines there is no appropriate benchmark.

The benchmark presented must be one that reflects the composite’s investment mandate, objective, or strategy. A firm may choose to present more than one benchmark in a GIPS Composite Report but must include all required information for all benchmarks presented in the GIPS Composite Report.

Because the benchmark selected for a composite must be appropriate for comparison with the composite’s performance, a firm must not compare a time-weighted return (TWR) benchmark with a composite’s SI-MWR. Public market indexes by themselves are not directly comparable to an MWR because the market indexes typically use TWRs. The public market equivalent (PME) is a method in which a public market index is used to create a comparable MWR from a series of cash flows that replicate those of the composite and that can be compared with the composite’s MWR. When the firm uses a PME, the market index used must be a total return benchmark.

For composites that have a subscription line of credit (LOC), and the firm is required to present composite returns both with and without the subscription line of credit (see Provision [[5.A.2]]), the firm must present benchmark returns for the same periods as both composite returns. If the benchmark is a PME, the firm must calculate a PME using the composite cash flows with the subscription LOC as well as using composite cash flows without the subscription LOC.

See Provision [[1.A.19]] for a discussion of total return benchmarks. See the discussion of Provision [[5.C.33]] for additional information regarding a PME.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions