---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 5.A.3
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST present the percentage of the total FAIR VALUE of COMPOSITE assets that were valued using subjective, unobservable inputs (as described in provision [[2.B.6]].e) as of the most recent annual period end, if such investments represent a material amount of COMPOSITE assets.
## Discussion
Markets are not always liquid, and investment prices are not always objective and/or observable. As the last level of the recommended valuation hierarchy indicates (see Provision [[2.B.6]]), it may be necessary for a firm to use subjective unobservable inputs to value an investment for which markets are not active on the measurement date. Examples of subjective unobservable inputs include an assumed discount rate, an assumed occupancy rate for a commercial building, and the default rate used for the valuation of a security in default. Examples related to insurance-linked securities include assumptions regarding hurricane damage and mortality rates. Unobservable inputs should be used to measure fair value only when observable inputs and prices are not available or appropriate. Unobservable inputs reflect the firm’s own assumptions about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the investment and should be developed based on the best information available under the circumstances.

Firms must present the percentage of the total fair value of composite assets that were valued using subjective unobservable inputs as of the most recent annual period end, if such investments represent a material amount of composite assets. The amount of composite assets valued using subjective unobservable inputs would be considered material if it would likely influence a reader’s judgment regarding the reliability of the valuation. The firm must decide on the criteria it will use to determine when subjective unobservable inputs represent a material amount of composite assets, include these criteria in its policy and procedures, and apply these criteria consistently.
### Sample Disclosure:
“As of 31 December 2020, 29% of composite assets were valued using subjective, unobservable inputs. These inputs are not supported by market activity and instead are based on internal proprietary pricing models.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions