---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 5.A.14
## Standard for Firms
When the FIRM presents the performance of a COMPOSITE that includes [[CARVE-OUT|CARVE-OUTS]] with allocated cash and also has a COMPOSITE of standalone portfolios managed according to the same strategy, the FIRM MUST present the composite SINCE-INCEPTION MONEY WEIGHTED RETURN through the most recent annual period end and the COMPOSITE assets of the COMPOSITE of standalone PORTFOLIOS as of the most recent annual period end in the [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]] of the COMPOSITE that includes [[CARVE-OUT|CARVE-OUTS]] with allocated cash.
## Discussion
A carve-out is a portion of a portfolio that is by itself representative of a distinct investment strategy, such as the domestic equity portion of a balanced portfolio. A carve-out may have its own dedicated cash balance, or cash may be allocated to the carve-out synthetically. If a firm has created carve-outs with allocated cash, the firm is likely, at some point, to obtain standalone portfolios managed in the same strategy as the carve-outs with allocated cash. (A standalone portfolio is a portfolio that is not a portion of a larger portfolio.) The firm must then create a separate composite that contains only the standalone portfolios. (See Provision [[3.A.18]].) If such a composite of standalone portfolios exists, the firm must present information about this composite in the GIPS Composite Report for the composite that includes carve-outs with allocated cash. The firm must present the since-inception-money weighted return (SI-MWR) through the most recent annual period end and the composite assets as of the most recent annual period end. Even though the time periods for the two SI-MWRs will be different, this will allow a prospective client to compare the return and assets of the composite that includes carve-outs with allocated cash to the return and assets of the composite that contains only standalone portfolios managed in the same strategy. If there are significant performance differences between the two composites, the prospective client has a chance to ask questions about the difference in returns between the two composites.

This provision applies only to carve-outs with allocated cash. It does not apply to carve-outs with their own cash.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions