---
tags: []
---
Links: [[5. Composite Money-Weighted Return Report]], [[5.A.1]]
___
# 5.A.1.g
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST present in each [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]]:
- [[TOTAL FIRM ASSETS]] as of the most recent annual period end.

Required for periods ending on or after 31 December 2020. For periods ending prior to 31 December 2020, the firm may present either total firm assets or composite assets as a percentage of total firm assets
## Discussion
For periods ending on or after 31 December 2020, the firm must present total firm assets as of the most recent annual period end. For periods ending prior to this date, the firm must present either total firm assets or composite assets as a percentage of total firm assets. Discretionary leverage must be deducted when calculating total firm assets. Discretionary leverage refers to loans taken at the discretion of the firm. In contrast, non-discretionary leverage refers to borrowings undertaken by the client. For example, if the firm is managing a composite that has $200 million in assets, including $50 million of assets borrowed by the firm, the firm must use $200 million when calculating total firm assets, not $250 million. The inclusion of both composite assets and total firm assets in a GIPS Composite Report will help a prospective client understand the composite size in relation to total firm assets.

Non-discretionary portfolios that are excluded from composites are included in total firm assets. Portfolios that are temporarily excluded from a composite because of the composite’s minimum asset size policy, or are excluded for any other reason, are also included in total firm assets.

Firms must be sure that assets are not double-counted because counting assets more than once would not fairly represent total firm assets.

See the discussion of Provision [[2.A.1]] for additional guidance on the calculation of total firm assets.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions