---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 5.A.6
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM includes more than one BENCHMARK in the [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]], the FIRM MUST present and disclose all required information for all [[BENCHMARK|BENCHMARKS]] presented.
## Discussion
It is permissible to include more than one benchmark in a GIPS Composite Report. All benchmarks included in a GIPS Composite Report must adhere to the requirements of the GIPS standards that are applicable to benchmarks. Firms may label benchmarks as primary and secondary benchmarks, but the same requirements and recommendations apply to all benchmarks included in a GIPS Composite Report. For example, a GIPS Composite Report must include the following:
- a description for all benchmarks, and
- a disclosure of changes to (or deletion of) any benchmark.

If the firm designates benchmarks as primary and secondary benchmarks, it must disclose when these designations change (e.g., if a primary benchmark becomes a secondary benchmark), because such a change in designation is considered a benchmark change. In all instances, if multiple benchmarks are presented in a GIPS Composite Report and one or more of the benchmarks is removed from the GIPS Composite Report, the firm must disclose this fact. (See Provision [[5.C.31]].)

An appropriate benchmark for a composite reflects the investment mandate, objective, or strategy of the composite. Additional benchmarks beyond appropriate benchmarks may be presented in a GIPS Composite Report as supplemental information. There must be sufficient disclosure so that a prospective client understands the nature of the benchmark and why it is being presented.

Disclosure, however, does not necessarily prevent information from being false or misleading. An additional benchmark must never be presented for the sole purpose of providing a favorable comparison to the performance of the composite. To do so would be misleading, regardless of the disclosures accompanying the benchmark.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions