---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 5.A.1.e
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST present in each GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT:
- The number of PORTFOLIOS in the COMPOSITE as of the most recent annual period end. If the COMPOSITE contains five or fewer PORTFOLIOS at period end, the number of PORTFOLIOS is not REQUIRED.
## Discussion
Each GIPS Composite Report must include information about the number of portfolios included in the composite. This figure must be presented as of the most recent annual period end that is included in the GIPS Composite Report. This requirement provides information to prospective clients on whether the composite is composed of a small number of portfolios or many. In cases where there are five portfolios or fewer in a composite at the most recent annual period end, the firm may choose to not present the number of portfolios in the composite. The firm might choose to do this to protect the identity and confidentiality of its clients. Because firms must present information about the number of portfolios in the composite, however, firms must either (1) state that the composite contains “five or fewer portfolios,” “less than six portfolios,” or use similar language, or (2) present the actual number of portfolios in the composite. (See Provision [[5.C.38]].)

Note that “five or fewer portfolios in the composite” refers to the number of portfolios in the composite at the most recent annual period end and not the number of portfolios in the composite for the full period for which the SI-MWR is presented. For example, if there were four portfolios in the composite for the full period but eight portfolios in the composite at year end, the firm would present eight, the actual number of portfolios in the composite at year end. The number of portfolios in the composite also must not include those portfolios that are joining the composite as of the next period. For example, assume a firm reports performance for periods ending on 31 December. A new portfolio that is funded during December and will be included in the composite beginning 1 January in accordance with the composite-specific policy must not be included in the number of portfolios in the composite as of 31 December.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions