---
tags: []
---
Links: [[5. Composite Money-Weighted Return Report]], [[5.A.1]]
___
# 5.A.1.a
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST present in each [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]]:
- The annualized COMPOSITE SINCE-INCEPTION [[MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURN]] through the most recent annual period end.
## Discussion
To claim compliance, a firm is required to meet all applicable requirements of the GIPS standards on a firm-wide basis for at least a five-year period, or since inception of the firm if the firm has been in existence for less than five years. See Provision [[1.A.3]] for a discussion of the required periods for initially claiming compliance.

If a firm meets the requirements for presenting money-weighted returns in a GIPS Composite Report (see Provision [[1.A.35]]) and chooses to do so, the firm must present the annualized composite since-inception money-weighted return (SI-MWR) through the most recent annual period end.

For example, assume a firm presents returns on a calendar year-end basis. If a composite has an inception date of 1 March 2015 and the most recent annual period end is 31 December 2019, the firm must present an annualized composite SI-MWR from 1 March 2015 through 31 December 2019. Although only the annualized composite SI-MWR through the most recent annual period end is required, it is recommended that firms present annualized composite SI-MWRs through each annual period end. (See Provision 5.B.1.) In this example, doing so would mean presenting SI-MWRs from 1 March 2015 through 31 December 2015, 1 March 2015 through 31 December 2016, 1 March 2015 through 31 December 2017, and 1 March 2015 through 31 December 2018. The SI-MWR from 1 March 2015 through 31 December 2015 must not be annualized because the return is for a period of less than one year.

Firms must clearly label the periods for which SI-MWRs are presented. Firms must select the annual period end for which SI-MWRs will be presented on a composite-specific basis and apply it consistently. For purposes of comparability, best practice would be for a firm to report composite SI-MWRs for periods ending on 31 December.

Firms may present either gross-of-fees or net-of-fees composite returns. Firms may also choose to present both gross-of-fees and net-of-fees composite returns in a GIPS Composite Report.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions