---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 5.A.13
## Standard for Firms
All REQUIRED and RECOMMENDED information in the GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT MUST be presented in the same currency.
## Discussion
Firms must present all required and recommended information in a GIPS Composite Report in the same currency (e.g., composite and benchmark returns, composite assets, and total firm assets). This requirement is not applicable to the fee schedule. Supplemental information should also be presented in the same currency. If it is not, that fact must be disclosed. Not disclosing this fact could be misleading.

If a firm chooses to present a composite in a different currency, the firm must convert all of the required information into the new currency. If the firm chooses to present performance in multiple currencies in the same GIPS Composite Report, the firm must convert all of the required information into each of the currencies and ensure it is clear in which currencies performance is reported. The firm must also convert any recommended information it chooses to present in the GIPS Composite Report containing the converted information.

In cases where a composite contains portfolios with different currencies, the firm must convert the individual portfolio cash flows and valuations to a single currency in order to calculate a composite return. It is not permissible to do so by applying the exchange rate as of the current period end to historical data.

It is up to the firm to determine the composite-specific conversion method. Policies and procedures for converting returns must be established, documented, and applied consistently.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions