---
tags: []
---
Links: [[5. Composite Money-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 5.A.2
## Standard for Firms
If a [[SUBSCRIPTION LINE OF CREDIT]] is used, the FIRM MUST present the COMPOSITE [[SINCE-INCEPTION]] [[MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURN]] both with and without the [[SUBSCRIPTION LINE OF CREDIT]] through the most recent annual period end. The FIRM is not REQUIRED to present returns without the [[SUBSCRIPTION LINE OF CREDIT]] when the [[SUBSCRIPTION LINE OF CREDIT]] has all of the following characteristics:
- The principal was repaid within 120 days using [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]] drawn down through a capital call.
- No principal was used to fund [[DISTRIBUTION|DISTRIBUTIONS]].

Required for periods ending on or after 31 December 2020.
## Discussion
A subscription line of credit (LOC) is a loan facility that is usually put in place to facilitate administration when firms are calling for funds from investors. A subscription LOC can have a significant effect on returns. However, there has been a lack of consistency in return calculations when a subscription LOC is used. For comparability and transparency, firms that use a subscription LOC must calculate and present the since-inception money-weighted return (SI-MWR) that includes the subscription LOC. For periods ending on or after 31 December 2020, firms are required to also calculate and present an SI-MWR that does not include the subscription LOC, unless the subscription LOC has the following two characteristics:
- The principal was repaid within 120 days using committed capital drawn down through a capital call; and
- No principal was used to fund distributions.

If the subscription LOC has both of these characteristics, the firm is not required to calculate and present an SI-MWR that does not include the subscription LOC.

Presenting composite returns with and without the subscription LOC provides prospective clients with a more complete understanding of the composite’s performance and the effect of the subscription LOC on the composite’s returns.

If returns both with and without the subscription LOC are required to be presented in a GIPS Composite Report, these returns must be comparable. If the firm presents gross-of-fees returns only, gross-of-fees returns with and without the subscription LOC must be presented. If the firm presents net-of-fees returns only, net-of-fees returns with and without the subscription LOC must be presented. If the firm presents both gross-of-fees and net-of-fees returns, the firm must present gross-of-fees returns with and without the subscription LOC and net-of-fees returns with and without the subscription LOC.

The SI-MWRs with and without the subscription LOC are required for the SI-MWR that is presented through the most recent annual period end. If a firm chooses to also include SI-MWRs through each annual period end, the SI-MWRs with and without the subscription LOC must be presented in the GIPS Composite Report.

See Provision [[2.A.50]] for guidance for calculating returns with and without the subscription LOC.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions