---
tags: []
---
Links: [[5. Composite Money-Weighted Return Report]], [[5.A.1]]
___
# 5.A.1.f
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST present in each [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]]:
- COMPOSITE assets as of the most recent annual period end.
## Discussion
Each GIPS Composite Report must include the amount of composite assets as of the most recent annual period end. This requirement provides information to prospective clients on the size of the composite, measured by the amount of assets it contains. When the composite strategy uses discretionary leverage, composite assets must be presented net of the discretionary leverage and not grossed up as if the discretionary leverage did not exist. Discretionary leverage refers to loans taken at the discretion of the firm. In contrast, non-discretionary leverage refers to borrowings undertaken by the client. For example, if the firm is managing a composite that has $200 million in assets, including $50 million of assets borrowed by the firm, the composite’s net assets are $200 million and its gross assets are $250 million. When calculating composite assets, the firm must use $200 million.

If a portfolio is temporarily excluded from a composite because of the composite’s minimum asset size policy, or is excluded for any other reason, the portfolio’s assets would not be included in composite assets for the period(s) for which the portfolio was excluded. However, the portfolio’s assets would be included in total firm assets for all periods for which the portfolio is under management, whether or not it is excluded from the composite. Composite assets do not include assets of those portfolios that are joining the composite as of the next period. For example, assume a firm reports performance for periods ending on 31 December. A new portfolio that is funded during December and will be included in the composite beginning 1 January in accordance with the composite-specific policy must not be included in composite assets as of 31 December.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions