---
tags: []
---
Links: [[5. Composite Money-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 5.A.12
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM chooses to present FIRM-wide [[ADVISORY-ONLY ASSETS]] or a combination of [[TOTAL FIRM ASSETS]] and FIRM-wide [[ADVISORY-ONLY ASSETS]], the FIRM MUST:
- Present FIRM-wide [[ADVISORY-ONLY ASSETS]] for the same periods for which the combination of [[TOTAL FIRM ASSETS]] and FIRM-wide [[ADVISORY-ONLY ASSETS]] is presented.
- Clearly label FIRM-wide [[ADVISORY-ONLY ASSETS]] as such.
- Clearly label the combination of [[TOTAL FIRM ASSETS]] and FIRM-wide [[ADVISORY-ONLY ASSETS]] as such.
## Discussion
Advisory-only assets are assets for which the firm provides investment recommendations but for which the firm has no control over implementation of investment decisions and no trading authority for the assets. Although firm-wide advisory-only assets must not be included in the calculation of total firm assets because the firm does not manage these assets, a firm may wish to provide information on firm-wide advisory-only assets in addition to the required presentation of total firm assets. The inclusion of information on firm-wide advisory-only assets provides prospective clients additional information about a firm’s business model and the types of investment-related services that it provides. If a firm chooses to present information on firm-wide advisory-only assets, it may present firm-wide advisory-only assets as either:
- a separate value, or
- the combination of total firm assets and firm-wide advisory-only assets.

If a firm chooses to present firm-wide advisory-only assets as a separate value, the information must be clearly labeled.

If a firm chooses to present the combination of total firm assets and firm-wide advisory-only assets, the firm must present firm-wide advisory-only assets for the same periods for which the combination of total firm assets and firm-wide advisory-only assets is presented. Both the firmwide advisory-only assets and the combination of total firm assets and firm-wide advisory-only assets must be clearly labeled as such.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions