---
tags: []
---
Links: [[5. Composite Money-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 5.A.10
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM chooses to present FIRM-wide uncalled [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]] or a combination of [[TOTAL FIRM ASSETS]] and FIRM-wide uncalled [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]], the FIRM MUST:
- Present FIRM-wide uncalled [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]] for the same periods for which the combination of [[TOTAL FIRM ASSETS]] and FIRM-wide uncalled [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]] is presented.
- Clearly label FIRM-wide uncalled [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]] as such.
- Clearly label the combination of [[TOTAL FIRM ASSETS]] and FIRM-wide uncalled [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]] as such.
## Discussion
Committed capital is defined as pledges of capital to an investment vehicle by investors (limited partners and the general partner) or the firm and is typically drawn down over a period of time. Uncalled committed capital, also known as dry powder, is the amount of capital that has not yet been drawn. For periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020, uncalled committed capital must not be included in total firm assets. (See Provision [[2.A.1]].) Although firm-wide uncalled committed capital must not be included in the calculation of total firm assets as of 1 January 2020, a firm may report firm-wide uncalled committed capital in addition to the required presentation of total firm assets, if it wishes to do so. The inclusion of information on firm-wide uncalled committed capital provides prospective clients with a more complete picture of the firm’s investments and the amount of capital that is currently committed to a future investment. If a firm chooses to present information on firmwide uncalled committed capital, it may present firm-wide uncalled committed capital as either:
- a separate value, or
- the combination of total firm assets and firm-wide uncalled committed capital.

If a firm chooses to present firm-wide uncalled committed capital as a separate value, the information must be clearly labeled.

If a firm chooses to present the combination of total firm assets and firm-wide uncalled committed capital, the firm must present firm-wide uncalled committed capital for the same periods for which the combination of total firm assets and firm-wide uncalled committed capital is presented. Both firm-wide uncalled committed capital and the combination of total firm assets and firm-wide uncalled committed capital must be clearly labeled as such.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions