---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 7.C.7
## Standard for Firms
When presenting POOLED FUND NET RETURNS, the FIRM MUST disclose:
- If POOLED FUND NET RETURNS are calculated using model or actual TOTAL POOLED FUND FEES.
- If POOLED FUND NET RETURNS are net of any PERFORMANCE-BASED FEES or [[CARRIED INTEREST]].
- If model INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES or model TOTAL POOLED FUND FEES are used and POOLED FUND GROSS RETURNS are not presented, the model INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE or model TOTAL POOLED FUND FEE used to calculate POOLED FUND NET RETURNS.
	- Required for periods ending on or after 31 December 2020.
- If model INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES or model TOTAL POOLED FUND FEES are used, the methodology used to calculate POOLED FUND NET RETURNS.
- If the POOLED FUND has a partnership structure, on which assets the POOLED FUND NET RETURNS are calculated.
- If the POOLED FUND has multiple share classes, and one share class is used to calculate POOLED FUND NET RETURNS, the share class used to calculate POOLED FUND NET RETURNS.
## Discussion
When presenting returns, it is important that there are sufficient disclosures so that prospective investors can understand what the returns actually represent.

Pooled fund net returns are required to reflect the deduction of all fees and expenses, including transaction costs, investment management fees, administrative fees, and other costs. When calculating pooled fund net returns, the fees used in the calculation must include both asset-based and performance-based fees. If the pooled fund net returns are net of any performance-based fees or carried interest, that fact must be disclosed.

A firm must disclose if model or actual total pooled fund fees are used to calculate pooled fund net returns. (See Provision [[2.A.33]] for an explanation of when model total pooled fund fees may be used.) Given the nature of a money-weighted return calculation, in most instances firms will use actual investment management fees and actual total pooled fund fees. However, there may be cases where it is appropriate to use model fees, such as when a pooled fund is seeded with firm capital and no investment management fees are charged. If model fees are used, and gross returns are presented along with the net returns, prospective investors can easily determine the model fee used by deducting the net returns from the gross returns. For periods ending on or after 31 December 2020, however, if model investment management fees or model total pooled fund fees are used and pooled fund gross returns are not presented, the firm must disclose the model investment management fees or model total pooled fund fees used to calculate pooled fund net returns. The methodology used in the calculation of pooled fund net returns must also be disclosed if model investment management fees or model total pooled fund fees are used. Given the nature of a money-weighted return calculation, in most instances firms will use actual total pooled fund fees. In some cases, however, it may be appropriate to use model fees, such as when a pooled fund is seeded with firm capital and no fees or expenses are charged.

Because general partner assets are not charged an investment management fee, the inclusion of general partner assets in the calculation of pooled fund net returns will boost net returns relative to the returns actually received by pooled fund investors. Therefore, in order for prospective investors to understand the pooled fund net returns presented in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report, if a pooled fund has a partnership structure, firms must disclose whether returns are calculated based on the general partner assets, the limited partner assets, or total pooled fund assets. To present the most relevant returns for prospective investors, it is common practice for pooled fund net returns to be calculated using only the limited partner assets and cash flows.

Pooled funds often have multiple share classes, with each class typically having different fees and expenses. In addition, there are often restrictions on what type of investor can purchase a particular share class. When a pooled fund has multiple share classes, firms must disclose which share class was used to calculate pooled fund net returns. This information will help prospective investors determine if the returns are based on fees and expenses that are high or low relative to the fund’s other share classes. It will also help investors determine if the returns are based on a share class for which they are eligible. If the returns are based on a share class for which they are not eligible, a prospective investor can then request information for a share class for which they are eligible.

> [!EXAMPLE] Example Disclosures:
> > [!EXAMPLE]- Sample Disclosure for Actual Total Pooled Fund Fees: 
> > “Pooled fund net returns are net of actual total pooled fund fees, including incentive fees, which are recorded on an accrual basis. Net returns are calculated using the assets of the limited partners.”
> 
> > [!EXAMPLE]- Sample Disclosure for Model Total Pooled Fund Fees: 
> > “Net returns are calculated by applying a model total pooled fund fee of 0.4125% on a quarterly basis. This equates to a model annual total pooled fund fee of 1.65%. The model fee is based on the actual administrative expenses as stated in the 2019 audited financial statements and applying the highest tier of the standard fee schedule that a limited partner would pay.”

## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions