---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 7.C.30
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose if performance from a past firm or affiliation is presented, and for which periods.
## Discussion
Although firms often think about time-weighted returns when considering portability issues, it is also possible for a money-weighted return to span two firms. Provision [[1.A.32]] includes the tests that must be met to determine if performance from a past firm or affiliation may be used to represent the historical performance of a new or acquiring firm and if that performance can be linked to the ongoing performance of the new or acquiring firm. Provision [[1.A.33]] includes the portability tests that must be met for the new or acquiring firm to use performance from a past firm or affiliation to represent its historical performance when there is a break in the track record between the past firm or affiliation and the new or acquiring firm. In this instance, the track record from the past firm or affiliation may be used if the tests are met, but the track record must not be linked to performance of the new or acquiring firm. A current since-inception money-weighted return (SI-MWR) must be calculated using only the performance after the break. A SI-MWR from the beginning of the track record up until the break may also be presented if the tests in Provision [[1.A.33]] are met. The current SI-MWR for the period after the break in performance and the SI-MWR representing performance prior to the break must not be linked, however, and each must be clearly labeled.

If the firm meets the required portability tests and presents performance from a past firm or affiliation in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report, the firm must disclose this fact, as well as the periods for which performance from the past firm or affiliation is presented.

### Sample Disclosure:
“The Opportunity Fund was funded in March 2016 and was managed by the Distressed Debt Team at a prior firm. On 15 December 2017, the prior firm sold the line of business that included the Distressed Debt Team to ABC Investments. Fund activity prior to 15 December 2017 is from the prior firm.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions