---
tags: []
---
Links: [[7. Pooled Fund Money-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 7.C.33
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose any change to the [[GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT]] resulting from the correction of a [[MATERIAL ERROR]]. Following the correction of the [[GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT]], this disclosure MUST be included for a minimum of one year and for as long as it is relevant to interpreting the track record. This disclosure is not REQUIRED to be included in a [[GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT]] that is provided to a [[PROSPECTIVE INVESTOR]] that did not receive the [[GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT]] containing the [[MATERIAL ERROR]].
## Discussion
Firms claiming compliance with the GIPS standards are likely to be faced with situations in which errors are discovered that must be specifically addressed. An error, which can be qualitative or quantitative, can be related to any component of a GIPS Pooled Fund Report that is missing or inaccurate. Errors in GIPS Pooled Fund Reports can result from, but are not limited to, incorrect, incomplete, or missing:
- pooled fund returns or assets,
- firm assets,
- benchmark returns, or
- disclosures.

Any material error in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report must be corrected and disclosed in a corrected GIPS Pooled Fund Report. A firm must define materiality within its error correction policies and procedures.

To adhere to this requirement, a firm must determine the criteria it will use to determine materiality. The following is a definition of materiality that firms might find useful as a starting point for their determination of materiality. “An error is material if the magnitude of the omission or misstatement of performance information, in light of surrounding circumstances, makes it probable that the judgment of a reasonable person relying on the information would have been changed by the omission or misstatement.” A firm should have a defined process for determining the objective criteria it will use in determining materiality.

Disclosure of the change in the corrected GIPS Pooled Fund Report resulting from a material error must be included in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report for a minimum of 12 months following the correction of the report and for as long as it is relevant to interpreting the track record. The firm must consider the underlying principles of the GIPS standards, which are fair representation and full disclosure, when determining how long the disclosure will be included in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report that contained the material error.

Disclosure of the change resulting from a material error is not required to be included in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report that is provided to new prospective investors.

The discussion for Provision [[1.A.20]] provides additional information on error correction, including determination of materiality, the actions that must be taken when an error in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report is discovered, and an explanation of who must receive the revised GIPS Pooled Fund Report.
### Sample Disclosure:
“This GIPS Pooled Fund Report includes a correction of the information provided for the XYZ Peer Universe. The since-inception internal rate of return for the XYZ Peer Universe through 31 December 2020 was originally presented as 3.4%. The correct return is 4.3%, as shown in this revised GIPS Pooled Fund Report.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions