---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 7.C.39
## Standard for Firms
When the [[GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT]] includes THEORETICAL PERFORMANCE as [[SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION]], the FIRM MUST:
- Disclose that the results are theoretical, are not based on the performance of actual assets, and if the THEORETICAL PERFORMANCE was derived from the retroactive or prospective application of a model.
- Disclose a basic description of the methodology and assumptions used to calculate the THEORETICAL PERFORMANCE sufficient for the PROSPECTIVE INVESTOR to interpret the THEORETICAL PERFORMANCE, including if it is based on model performance, backtested performance, or hypothetical performance.
- Disclose whether the THEORETICAL PERFORMANCE reflects the deduction of actual or estimated [[INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE|INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES]], TRANSACTION COSTS, or other fees and charges that an actual [[POOLED FUND]] investor would have paid or will pay.
- Clearly label the THEORETICAL PERFORMANCE as [[SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION]].
## Discussion
To be presented as supplemental information in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report, theoretical performance must relate to the respective pooled fund. The following are examples of theoretical performance that may be included in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report as supplemental information:
- Results created by applying a pooled fund investment strategy or methodology to historical data to indicate how a strategy constructed with the benefit of hindsight would have performed during a certain period in the past had the strategy been in existence during that period.
- Ex ante performance that is calculated by combining actual pooled fund cash flows with projected future cash flows.
- Results that include the effect of currency hedging that has been applied after the fact to the pooled fund when the pooled fund was not originally managed including the currency hedging strategy, and the hedging is not part of the actual pooled fund returns.

When theoretical performance is included as supplemental information in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report, a firm is required to include a number of disclosures to ensure that the recipients of the report, including prospective investors, understand the nature of the information being presented. Among the required disclosures are the source of the theoretical performance, the methodology and assumptions used to calculate the theoretical performance, and the treatment of fees and costs.

Firms must also clearly label the theoretical performance as supplemental information.
### Sample Disclosure:
“A return history has been constructed for the period from 1 January 2015 through 31 December 2018 that reflects the application of an investment model used by XYZ Investment Management. The results are theoretical and are not based on the performance of actual assets. The return history is derived from the retroactive application of a model. The model assumes that an investment was made in the top 20 individual funds that have been identified as funds that meet the model’s ESG screening criteria currently, and assumes an equal amount was invested in each fund on an assumed quarterly capital call. The first capital call was assumed to occur on 31 December 2014. The since-inception internal rate of return for the model does not reflect the deduction of investment management fees, transaction costs or other fees and charges.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions