---
tags: []
---
Links: [[7. Pooled Fund Money-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 7.C.29
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose the calculation methodology used for the BENCHMARK. If the FIRM presents the PUBLIC MARKET EQUIVALENT of a [[POOLED FUND]] as a BENCHMARK, the FIRM MUST also disclose the index used to calculate the PUBLIC MARKET EQUIVALENT.
## Discussion
The benchmark selected for a pooled fund must be appropriate for comparison with the performance of the pooled fund. Unlike benchmarks for publicly traded securities, however, industry benchmarks for private market investments are less widely available or are available only through certain commercial vendors. Firms may use public market indices as a benchmark for private market investments, but the public market indices by themselves are not directly comparable to a money-weighted return (MWR) because the market indices typically use a time-weighted return. The public market equivalent (PME) is a method where a public market index is used to create a comparable MWR from a series of cash flows that replicate those of the pooled fund and that can be compared with the MWR of the pooled fund.

The GIPS standards require that the calculation methodology for the benchmark be disclosed. This information provides transparency as to the comparability of performance between the pooled fund and the benchmark. If a PME is used as a benchmark, the firm must disclose which public market index is used to create the PME.
### Sample Disclosure for a Non-PME Benchmark:
“The benchmark is the since-inception money-weighted return for the ACME Advisory US Venture Capital Funds Universe – 2018 Vintage Year. The vintage year is determined by the date of the first capital call for each fund in the universe.”
### Sample Disclosure for a PME Benchmark:
“The benchmark is the public market equivalent (PME) of the ABC Mid-Cap Equity Index, which tracks the performance of US mid-cap companies. The PME is a method by which a public market index is used to create a since-inception money-weighted return that is comparable to a fund’s since-inception money-weighted return from a series of cash flows that are the same as those of the fund and uses a theoretical investment value. The theoretical investment value is derived by buying and selling the public market index using the dates and amounts of actual pooled fund cash flows.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions