---
tags: []
---
Links: [[7. Pooled Fund Money-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 7.C.16
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose all significant events that would help a [[PROSPECTIVE INVESTOR]] interpret the [[GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT]]. This disclosure MUST be included for a minimum of one year and for as long as it is relevant to interpreting the track record.
## Discussion
The GIPS standards are based on the principles of fair representation and full disclosure. Meeting these objectives requires a good faith commitment on the part of the firm to adhere to the spirit of the GIPS standards. The GIPS standards cannot foresee and cover every situation that might occur. Therefore, this provision requires that firms disclose all significant events that would help explain the firm’s GIPS Pooled Fund Report to a prospective investor. The primary goal of this requirement is to provide relevant information to prospective investors so that they can understand the potential effect of the significant event on the pooled fund’s investment strategy and the firm.

Significant events are determined by the firm and would include, as examples, a material change in personnel responsible for investment management, significant changes to the investment management process, the loss of historical records resulting from a catastrophic event, or a change in firm ownership. The acquisition of a new entity or selling off part of a firm would also qualify as a significant event, as would the departure of someone who was the single investment decision maker for a strategy.

Depending on the situation, a general statement describing the significant event that has occurred may be sufficient. Other situations may require firms to disclose specific information pertaining to the significant event. The disclosure regarding the significant event must be included in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report for a minimum of one year and for as long as it is relevant to interpreting the performance track record. As an example, a firm that acquires another firm, resulting in a large increase in total firm assets, may disclose this significant event for as long as the large change in total firm assets is included in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report. In contrast, a change in a firm’s chief investment officer is a change that a firm may believe should be disclosed for one year only.

The firm must consider the underlying principles of the GIPS standards, which are fair representation and full disclosure, when determining how long the disclosure will be included in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report.
### Sample Disclosures:
“In June 2017, Firm G determined that the custodian bank used by all of the firm’s proprietary mutual funds had failed to file reclaimable withholding tax refund requests with the appropriate authorities. At that time, all accrued reclaimable withholding taxes were written off, decreasing the Fund’s monthly return by 1.06%.”

“On 15 April 2018, the quantitative asset management division of Firm Z was sold, resulting in the 2018 decrease in Firm Z’s assets.”

“In February 2020, the parent company of Firm M announced plans to exit the investment management business and sell Firm M. As of April 2020, a tentative sale of Firm M has been agreed upon but not yet finalized.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions