---
tags: []
---
Links: [[7. Pooled Fund Money-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 7.C.27
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM changes the BENCHMARK, the FIRM MUST disclose:
- For a prospective BENCHMARK change, the date and description of the change. Changes MUST be disclosed for as long as returns for the prior BENCHMARK are included in the [[GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT]].
- For a retroactive BENCHMARK change, the date and description of the change. Changes MUST be disclosed for a minimum of one year and for as long as it is relevant to interpreting the track record.
## Discussion
Firms must disclose the date and description of any changes to the benchmark over time. A benchmark change can take two forms:
- The benchmark is changed from one benchmark to another on a prospective basis only.
- The benchmark is changed for all periods (i.e., retroactively).

In most cases, the firm should only change the benchmark going forward and not change the benchmark retroactively.

If the firm changes the benchmark prospectively and presents benchmark returns that combine two different benchmarks, the date and description of the change must be disclosed for as long as returns for the prior benchmark are included in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report. Given the nature of a money-weighted return (MWR), however, it is not expected that this situation would apply to a GIPS Pooled Fund Report that includes MWRs.

There may be times when a firm determines that it is appropriate to change the benchmark for a given pooled fund retroactively. For example, because benchmarks are continually evolving, if the firm finds that a new benchmark is a better comparison for an investment strategy, the firm may consider changing the benchmark retroactively. In the case of a retroactive benchmark change, there must be a disclosure of the date and description of the benchmark change, including the fact that the benchmark was changed retroactively. Disclosures related to a retroactive change in a benchmark must be included in the respective GIPS Pooled Fund Report for a minimum of one year and for as long as the disclosures are relevant to interpreting the performance track record. The firm must consider the underlying principles of the GIPS standards, which are fair representation and full disclosure, when determining how long this disclosure will be included in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report.

When a firm changes a benchmark retroactively, the firm is encouraged to continue to also present the old benchmark.

Changes to the benchmark primarily intended to make performance look better by lowering the benchmark return violate the spirit of the GIPS standards.
### Sample Disclosure:
“In January 2017, the benchmark was changed from ABC Index to XYZ Index for all periods.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions