---
tags: []
---
Links: [[7. Pooled Fund Money-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 7.C.23
## Standard for Firms
If the [[GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT]] conforms with laws and/or regulations that conflict with the REQUIREMENTS of the GIPS standards, the FIRM MUST disclose this fact and disclose the manner in which the laws and/or regulations conflict with the GIPS standards.
## Discussion
Firms must comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding the calculation and presentation of performance. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations, however, does not necessarily result in compliance with the GIPS standards. Firms must also comply with all of the applicable requirements of the GIPS standards. In the rare cases where laws and regulations conflict with the GIPS standards, firms are required to comply with the laws and regulations and disclose the manner in which the laws and/or regulations conflict with the GIPS standards.

This disclosure will assist prospective investors in comparing GIPS Pooled Fund Reports among firms where reporting requirements may differ because of local laws or regulations.
### Sample Disclosure:
“We present since-inception money-weighted returns through each annual period end. Local laws do not allow the presentation of returns of less than one year to prospective investors, which is in conflict with the GIPS standards. Therefore, no performance is presented for this pooled fund for the period from 1 July 2018 (the inception date of the pooled fund) to 31 December 2018.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions