---
tags: []
---
Links: [[7. Pooled Fund Money-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 7.C.36
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM presents [[ADDITIONAL RISK MEASURES]], the FIRM MUST:
- Describe any ADDITIONAL RISK MEASURE.
- Disclose the name of the risk-free rate if a risk-free rate is used in the calculation of the ADDITIONAL RISK MEASURE.
## Discussion
There is no required risk measure for a GIPS Pooled Fund Report that presents money-weighted returns. However, understanding and interpreting investment performance requires the consideration of both risk and return. It is therefore recommended that firms present additional risk measures for the pooled fund and the benchmark. (Because no quantitative risk measure is required for pooled funds that present money-weighted returns, all risk measures presented are considered additional risk measures. See Provision [[7.B.4]]) It is important to keep in mind that additional risk measures should be consistent with the pooled fund’s strategy. For example, if the strategy includes managing foreign currency risk, the presentation of a hedge ratio would be consistent with that objective.

The GIPS Pooled Fund Report must include a description of any additional risk measure presented. If a risk-free rate is used in the calculation of an additional risk measure, the name of the risk-free rate must be disclosed. The disclosure of the name of the risk-free rate used in the calculation of an additional risk measure is required because of the importance of the selection of an appropriate risk-free rate. With a disclosure regarding the risk-free rate, the firm’s prospective investors can better understand and interpret the additional risk measure(s) presented.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions