---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 5.C.5
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose the [[BENCHMARK DESCRIPTION]], which MUST include the key features of the BENCHMARK or the name of the BENCHMARK for a readily recognized index or other point of reference.
## Discussion
Firms are required to disclose a description of each benchmark included in a GIPS Composite Report. The benchmark description is defined as general information regarding the investments, structure, and/or characteristics of the benchmark, and it must include the key features of the benchmark. In the case of a widely recognized benchmark, the name of the benchmark will satisfy this requirement. There are few money-weighted return benchmarks that would be considered widely recognized. If the firm presents a public market equivalent (PME) as a benchmark, the benchmark description must include the name of the market index that is used to calculate the PME. Given the unique nature of a PME, if the market index used to calculate the PME is not readily recognized, the firm must also disclose the description of this benchmark. See the discussion of Provision [[5.C.33]] for an explanation of a PME. Each firm must decide for itself whether a benchmark is widely recognized. If the firm is not certain as to whether the benchmark is widely known, the firm must include the benchmark description.
### Sample Disclosure:
“The custom benchmark return is calculated by applying the investment cash flows of the Armor Distressed Debt Composite to the XYZ Eurozone Distressed Debt Bond Index. The index reflects a portfolio of euro-denominated distressed debt bonds issued in Eurozone countries that generally have credit ratings of CCC or lower from the main rating agencies and are listed on the XYZ platforms.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions