---
tags: []
---
Links: [[5. Composite Money-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 5.C.32
## Standard for Firms
If a custom BENCHMARK or combination of multiple [[BENCHMARK|BENCHMARKS]] is used, the FIRM MUST:
- Disclose the BENCHMARK components, weights, and rebalancing process, if applicable.
- Disclose the calculation methodology.
- Clearly label the BENCHMARK to indicate that it is a custom BENCHMARK.
## Discussion
When custom benchmarks are used, the firm must disclose the benchmark components, weights, and rebalancing process, if applicable. Given the nature of money-weighted return (MWR) calculations, this disclosure will rarely apply to a GIPS Composite Report that presents MWRs.

Instead, it is expected that a firm would use a public market equivalent (PME) as a custom benchmark. See the discussion of Provision [[5.C.33]] for an explanation of a PME. A PME must be clearly labeled as such, and the methodology used to calculate the PME must be disclosed.

A firm may calculate a PME that is a gross-of-fees or net-of-fees return. A PME that is a net-of-fees return is calculated using the same cash flows that are used to calculate the composite’s net-of-fees return. A firm may use a net-of-fees PME benchmark only when composite net-of-fees returns are presented. The use of a net benchmark when only composite gross-of-fees returns are presented is one instance where disclosure is not sufficient to prevent the information presented from being false and misleading. When a firm includes a net-of-fees benchmark in a GIPS Composite Report, the firm must clearly label the benchmark as a custom benchmark and disclose the calculation methodology.
### Sample Disclosure for a PME Benchmark:
“The benchmark is the public market equivalent (PME) of the ABC Mid-Cap Equity Index, which tracks the performance of US mid-cap companies. The PME is a method by which a public market index is used to create a since-inception money-weighted return that is comparable to a composite’s since-inception money-weighted return from a series of cash flows that are the same as those of the composite and uses a theoretical investment value. The theoretical investment value is derived by buying and selling the public market index using the dates and amounts of actual composite cash flows.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions