---
tags: []
---
Links: [[5. Composite Money-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 5.C.36
## Standard for Firms
If a SUBSCRIPTION LINE OF CREDIT is used, and the FIRM is REQUIRED to present returns both with and without the SUBSCRIPTION LINE OF CREDIT, the FIRM MUST disclose:
- The purpose for using the SUBSCRIPTION LINE OF CREDIT.
- The size of the SUBSCRIPTION LINE OF CREDIT as of the most recent annual period end.
- The SUBSCRIPTION LINE OF CREDIT amount outstanding as of the most recent annual period end.
## Discussion
Subscription lines of credit are being used by more firms and for longer periods, and they may have a significant effect on returns. It is therefore important that prospective clients have sufficient information about any subscription line of credit (LOC) that could influence composite performance.

In those situations in which a subscription LOC is used and the firm is required to present returns both with and without the subscription LOC (see Provision [[5.A.2]]), the firm must disclose the purpose of the subscription LOC so that prospective clients can better understand why the subscription LOC exists. In some cases, the subscription LOC is short term in nature and is put in place simply to facilitate administration when capital is being called from investors. In other cases, the subscription LOC is longer term and is used to delay the capital calls from investors. To help prospective clients put the subscription LOC in perspective, the firm must also disclose both the size of the subscription LOC and the subscription LOC amount outstanding as of the most recent annual period end.
### Sample Disclosures:
“A $100M subscription line of credit is in place as bridge financing to reduce the number of capital calls made to investors. As of 31 December 2020, $40M is outstanding.”

“A $250M subscription line of credit is in place and is used to finance investments. During the past two years, the subscription LOC was fully drawn but was repaid as of 31 December 2019.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions