---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 5.C.20
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM is redefined, the FIRM MUST disclose the date and description of the redefinition.
## Discussion
A firm redefinition occurs when something changes with how the firm is held out to the public or when any of its distinct business entity criteria significantly change. Changes in investment style or personnel are not events that typically cause a firm redefinition. A simple firm name change is also not a sufficient reason to redefine the firm. Corporate restructuring may cause a change with how the firm is held out to the public. As an example, a firm that was defined to include only the institutional division would be redefined when it consolidated the institutional division with the mutual fund/retail division. A merger or acquisition may cause a change in the definition of the firm, but that is not always the case.

Suppose that a firm defines itself as an investment management firm offering active equity strategies to clients. An acquisition that expanded the firm’s offerings to include fixed-income strategies would result in a redefinition of the firm, because there would be a change in how the firm holds itself out to the public. An acquisition that simply added additional equity strategies to the firm’s offerings would not result in a redefinition of the firm. However, the acquisition is likely to be a significant event that must be disclosed in a GIPS Composite Report. (See Provision [[5.C.18]].)

In some cases, as a result of a significant alteration in a firm’s structure or organization, a change can be so great that it creates a new firm. See Provision [[1.A.2]] for guidance on firm definitions.

The GIPS standards require that changes in a firm’s organization must not lead to alteration of historical performance (see Provision [[1.A.28]]).
### Sample Disclosures:
“As of 1 August 2019, XYZ Firm was redefined to include both the London and Tokyo office of XYZ Company. Previously, the firm was defined to include only the London office.”

“As of 1 January 2020, XYZ Investment Management was redefined to include the wrap division.”

“Effective 1 January 2019, ABC Capital Management was redefined as an investment management firm offering both equity and fixed-income strategies. Prior to the 31 December 2018 acquisition of Curtone Capital Management, an investment firm offering fixed-income strategies, ABC Capital Management offered only equity strategies.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions