---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 5.C.27
## Standard for Firms
If [[CARVE-OUT|CARVE-OUTS]] with allocated cash are included in the [[COMPOSITE]], the FIRM MUST:
- Indicate [[CARVE-OUT]] in the COMPOSITE name.
- Disclose that the COMPOSITE includes [[CARVE-OUT|CARVE-OUTS]] with allocated cash.
- Disclose the policy used to allocate cash to [[CARVE-OUT|CARVE-OUTS]].
- Disclose that the [[GIPS COMPOSITE REPORT]] for the COMPOSITE of standalone PORTFOLIOS is available upon request, if the COMPOSITE of standalone PORTFOLIOS exists.
## Discussion
With the issuance of the 2020 edition of the GIPS standards, firms are once again allowed to include carve-outs with cash that has been allocated synthetically in composites. (This was prohibited from 1 January 2010 through 31 December 2019.) In the spirit of fair representation and full disclosure, it is important that prospective clients have sufficient information to understand the nature of the portfolios included in a composite. If carve-outs with allocated cash are included in a composite, the name of the composite must include “carve-out” or otherwise indicate this. In addition to “carve-out” being indicated in the name of the composite, there must be a disclosure that the composite includes carve-outs with allocated cash. These two requirements signal to prospective clients that there are assets in the composite that do not represent standalone portfolios and for which they might want to request additional information. (A standalone portfolio is a portfolio that is not a portion of a larger portfolio.) Firms are not required to indicate “carve-out” in the composite name if the composite includes carve-outs with allocated cash that were created in compliance with prior editions of the GIPS standards.

Because the methodology for allocating cash to carve-outs can have a significant effect on a composite’s return, it is required that the firm disclose the policy used to allocate cash to the carve-outs in the composite. See the discussion of Provision [[3.A.15]] for methods that may be used to allocate cash.

Once a firm obtains one or more standalone portfolios managed in the same strategy as the carve-outs with allocated cash, the firm must create a separate composite that includes only the standalone portfolios. (See Provision [[3.A.18]].) The returns and composite assets of the composite that includes only standalone portfolios must be presented in the GIPS Composite Report for the composite that includes carve-outs with allocated cash. In addition, in the GIPS Composite Report for the composite that includes carve-outs with allocated cash, the firm must disclose that the GIPS Composite Report for the composite of standalone portfolios managed in the same strategy as the composite with carve-outs with allocated cash is available upon request. This disclosure will inform prospective clients that they can compare the GIPS Composite Reports for the composite with carve-outs with allocated cash and the composite with only standalone portfolios if they wish to do so. This disclosure is required only when the firm has standalone portfolios managed in the same strategy as the composite with carve-outs with allocated cash and has therefore created the required composite of standalone portfolios.

Once a firm has obtained standalone portfolios managed in the same strategy as the carve-outs with allocated cash, the firm may present prospective clients with the GIPS Composite Report that includes only the standalone portfolios, rather than the GIPS Composite Report that includes carve-outs with allocated cash.
### Sample Disclosure:
“The Private Equity Carve-Out Composite includes carve-outs with allocated cash. Cash and cash returns are allocated to carve-outs based on each carve-out’s size relative to its total portfolio at the time of the last valuation. A GIPS Composite Report for the Private Equity Composite that includes only standalone portfolios is available upon request.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions