---
tags: []
---
Links: [[5. Composite Money-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 5.C.40
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM changes the type of return(s) presented for the COMPOSITE (e.g., changes from TIME-WEIGHTED RETURNS to [[MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURN|MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURNS]]), the FIRM MUST disclose the change and the date of the change. This disclosure must be included for a minimum of one year and for as long as it is relevant to interpreting the track record.
## Discussion
A firm must present time-weighted returns (TWRs) in a GIPS Composite Report unless certain criteria are met that allow money-weighted returns (MWRs) to be presented instead of TWRs. Firms may choose to present MWRs instead of TWRs for a specific composite only if the firm controls the external cash flows into the portfolios in the composite and the portfolios in the composite have at least one of the following characteristics: They are closed-end; fixed life; fixed commitment; or illiquid investments are a significant part of the strategy. (See Provision [[1.A.35]].)

When a firm changes the type of return presented for a composite, the firm must disclose, in the respective GIPS Composite Report, the change in the type of return (e.g., from TWR to MWR) and the date of the change. This disclosure must be included in the GIPS Composite Report for a minimum of one year and for as long as it is relevant and helpful to the firm’s prospective clients in interpreting the composite’s track record. The firm must consider the underlying principles of the GIPS standards, which are fair representation and full disclosure, when determining how long the disclosure will be included in the GIPS Composite Report.

When a firm changes the type of return presented for a composite, for example from TWRs to MWRs, the firm must change the returns for all periods. As an example, suppose that a firm is presenting TWRs for a composite from the inception of the composite on 1 January 2013 through 31 December 2019. It decides that it will switch to present MWRs as of 1 January 2020. The firm cannot present TWRs through 31 December 2019 and an MWR from 1 January 2020 through 31 December 2020. The firm must present the since-inception MWR for the period from 1 January 2013 (the inception date of the composite) through 31 December 2020 in the GIPS Composite Report for the period ended 31 December 2020.
### Sample Disclosure:
“Beginning with the GIPS Composite Report for the period ended 31 December 2020, the returns presented for the XYZ Composite were changed from time-weighted returns to money-weighted returns.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions