---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 5.C.14
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose that the following lists are available upon request, if applicable:
- List of [[COMPOSITE DESCRIPTION|COMPOSITE DESCRIPTIONS]].
- List of POOLED FUND DESCRIPTIONS for [[LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND|LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUNDS]].
- List of [[BROAD DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND|BROAD DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUNDS]].
## Discussion
In each GIPS Composite Report, firms must disclose that a list of composite descriptions and a list of pooled fund descriptions for limited distribution pooled funds (LDPFs) are available upon request, if applicable to the firm. The firm must also disclose that a list of broad distribution pooled funds (BDPFs) is available upon request, if BDPFs are included within the definition of the firm. The required list of LDPF descriptions and of BDPFs is at the fund level and not the share class level.

If the firm does not sell participation in a fund (e.g., the firm manages the assets but another legal entity distributes the fund and the firm does not sell shares in the fund), the firm must consider the portfolio a segregated account and would include the portfolio in a composite. This would include sub-advised pooled funds. The segregated account would not be included on the list of LDPF descriptions or the list of BDPFs. In addition, a portfolio with a pooled fund wrapper (i.e., a single-investor pooled fund), which is unitized but is not available to other investors, is also considered a segregated account, would be included in a composite, and would not appear on a list of LDPF descriptions or a list of BDPFs.

As noted in Provision [[1.A.22]], if a pooled fund is included in a composite but the firm offers participation in the fund, either directly or through an agent, the pooled fund must still appear on the required list of LDPF descriptions or the list of BDPFs, as appropriate.

The firm may combine its list of composite descriptions, its list of LDPF descriptions, and its list of BDPFs into one document if it wishes to do so. The firm may also prepare a list of all the strategies that it offers and may indicate, as part of the strategy description, the types of portfolios (segregated account, LDPF, or BDPF) in which the strategy is available. This list of strategies can be in narrative or table format.

This requirement exists to provide prospective clients with a complete picture of the firm’s composites and pooled funds. Prospective clients may then request information that will allow them to evaluate whether the GIPS Composite Report they have received is the most appropriate and to determine if there are any other GIPS Composite Reports or GIPS Pooled Fund Reports that they should also request to see.

- List of [[COMPOSITE DESCRIPTION|COMPOSITE DESCRIPTIONS]].
	The firm must disclose, in each GIPS Composite Report, that the firm’s list of composite descriptions is available upon request. The list of composite descriptions itself does not need to be included in each GIPS Composite Report but must be available upon request. The list of composite descriptions must include the composite description for each current composite, as well as a description for all composites that have terminated in the past five years. The composite descriptions disclosed in GIPS Composite Reports must be consistent with the descriptions included in the list of composite descriptions.
	
	An explanation of composite descriptions can be found in the discussion of Provision [[1.A.22]]. A Sample List of Composite Descriptions can be found in Appendix D of the GIPS standards.

- List of POOLED FUND DESCRIPTIONS for [[LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND|LIMITED DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUNDS]].
	If LDPFs are included within the definition of a firm, the firm must disclose, in each GIPS Composite Report, that the firm’s list of descriptions of LDPFs is available upon request. An LDPF is any pooled fund that is not a BDPF. A BDPF is any pooled fund that is regulated under a framework that would permit the general public to purchase or hold the pooled fund’s shares and is not exclusively offered in one-on-one presentations. LDPFs are often referred to as “private funds.” These funds are typically sold in one-on-one presentations and may not be highly regulated. The list of LDPF descriptions does not need to be included in each GIPS Composite Report but must be available upon request. The list of LDPF descriptions must include the pooled fund description for each current pooled fund but does not have to include terminated funds. Terminated LDPFs are treated differently from terminated composites because, although a firm can restart a composite strategy when a prospective client hires the firm for a strategy that was previously closed, the firm does not have the same ability to restart a pooled fund. The pooled fund descriptions disclosed in GIPS Pooled Fund Reports must be consistent with the descriptions included in the list of pooled fund descriptions.
	
	The list of LDPF descriptions may be tailored to include only those LDPFs for which a prospective investor is eligible, but the firm is not required to do this.
	
	An explanation of LDPF descriptions can be found in the discussion of Provision [[1.A.22]]. A Sample List of Pooled Fund Descriptions can be found in Appendix D of the GIPS standards.

- List of [[BROAD DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUND|BROAD DISTRIBUTION POOLED FUNDS]].
	In addition to the lists of composite descriptions and LDPF descriptions, firms must also disclose, in each GIPS Composite Report, that a list of BDPFs is available upon request, if applicable to the firm. A BDPF is any pooled fund that is regulated under a framework that would permit the general public to purchase or hold the pooled fund’s shares and is not exclusively offered in one-on-one presentations. These funds are typically sold to the general public and are highly regulated.
	
	Note that the required list of BDPFs is a list of the names of the firm’s BDPFs only. No descriptions of the BDPFs are required. The list of BDPF names does not need to be included in each GIPS Composite Report but must be available upon request. The list of BDPFs must include the names of all current BDPFs but does not need to include terminated BDPFs. Terminated BDPFs are treated differently from terminated composites because, although a firm can restart a composite strategy when a prospective client hires the firm for a strategy that was previously closed, the firm does not have the same ability to restart a pooled fund. If a firm includes information about all of its BDPFs on its website, the firm may provide a link to the website to fulfill the requirement to provide the list of BDPFs upon request.
	
	This list may be tailored to include only those BDPFs for which a prospective investor is eligible, but the firm is not required to do this.

### Sample Disclosures:
#### For Firms with Composites Only
“A list of composite descriptions is available upon request.”
#### For Firms with Composites and Limited Distribution Pooled Funds
“A list of composite descriptions and a list of limited distribution pooled fund descriptions are available upon request.”
#### For Firms with Composites, Limited Distribution Pooled Funds, and Broad Distribution Pooled Funds
“A list of composite descriptions, a list of limited distribution pooled fund descriptions, and a list of broad distribution pooled funds are available upon request.”
#### For Firms That Offer Strategies in Multiple Vehicles
“A list of all composite and pooled fund investment strategies offered by the firm, with a description of each strategy, is available upon request. The type of portfolios in which each strategy is available (segregated account, limited distribution pooled fund, or broad distribution pooled fund) is indicated in the description of each strategy.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions