---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 5.C.35
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST disclose the frequency of EXTERNAL CASH FLOWS used in the MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURN calculation if daily frequency was not used.
## Discussion
When calculating money-weighted returns (MWRs), quarterly or more frequent cash flows must be used prior to 1 January 2020, and daily cash flows must be used as of 1 January 2020. A historical cash flow stream may therefore include daily, monthly and/or quarterly cash flows. When constructing such a cash flow stream historically, and daily cash flows are not used, the firm must assume that all quarterly and monthly cash flows occurred on a particular date in the month or quarter regardless of the actual date of the cash flow. For example, all monthly or quarterly cash flows might be dated as if they occurred on the last day of the month, regardless of the actual date of the cash flow. See Provision [[2.A.29]] for an example of how quarterly and monthly cash flows can be reflected in an MWR calculation.

The MWR calculation is sensitive to the relative timing of cash flows and, especially early in the life of a composite, returns calculated using a quarterly cash flow dating convention can differ from returns calculated using a monthly or daily convention. Accordingly, firms are required to disclose the frequency of cash flows used in the MWR calculation if daily cash flows are not used for periods prior to 1 January 2020. It is recommended that firms use daily cash flows for all periods.
### Sample Disclosure:
“The money-weighted return calculation incorporates monthly cash flows for periods prior to 1 January 2020 and daily cash flows thereafter.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions