---
tags: []
---
Links: [[5. Composite Money-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 5.C.19
## Standard for Firms
For any performance presented for periods prior to the [[MINIMUM EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE DATE]] that does not comply with the GIPS standards, the FIRM MUST disclose the periods of non-compliance.
## Discussion
In a GIPS Composite Report that includes money-weighted returns (MWRs), firms may present non-GIPS-compliant performance only for periods ending before the minimum effective compliance date, which is 1 January 2006 for private equity and real estate composites and 1 January 2000 for all other composites. (See Provision [[1.A.30]].) If the firm chooses to present non-compliant performance for periods prior to the minimum effective compliance date, the firm must disclose which periods are not in compliance. Prospective clients and existing clients can then inquire about the reasons why the performance prior to the minimum effective compliance date is not compliant and consider the effects of non-compliance on the historical performance.

The measurement period for a composite’s since-inception money-weighted return (SI-MWR) is the period from the inception date of the composite through the end of the period being reported. The beginning date remains constant and the ending date is extended as the measurement period becomes longer. It is necessary to use the period-end date of an SI-MWR to determine the non-compliant period.

Determining the period of compliance for an MWR calculation requires consideration of cash flows and valuations. When calculating MWRs, quarterly or more frequent cash flows must be used prior to 1 January 2020, and daily cash flows must be used as of 1 January 2020. For periods ending on or after 1 January 2011, portfolios in the composite must be valued in accordance with the definition of fair value. See the discussion of Provision [[2.A.19]] for information on valuation requirements for periods ending prior to that date.

Given that the minimum effective compliance dates are so distant, and that firms are required to present only one SI-MWR (the SI-MWR through the most recent annual period end), it is not expected that the minimum effective compliance date will have an effect on many firms that present composite MWRs.

If non-compliant performance for periods ending on or after the minimum effective compliance date is included in a GIPS Composite Report, it must be labeled as supplemental information.
### Sample Disclosure:
“The returns for the XYZ Private Equity Composite for periods ending prior to 31 December 2005 are not in compliance with the GIPS standards.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions