---
tags: []
---
Links: [[4. Composite Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 4.D.6
## Standard for Firms
If the [[COMPOSITE]] contains PORTFOLIOS with [[BUNDLED FEE|BUNDLED FEES]], the FIRM SHOULD disclose the types of fees included in the [[BUNDLED FEE]].
## Discussion
A bundled fee is a fee that combines multiple fees into one total or “bundled” fee. Bundled fees can include any combination of investment management fees, transaction costs, custody fees, and/or administrative fees. Two examples of bundled fees are all-in fees and wrap fees.

- All-In Fee: An all-in fee is a type of bundled fee that can include any combination of investment management fees, transaction costs, custody fees, and administrative fees. All-in fees are typically offered in certain jurisdictions where asset management, brokerage, and custody services are offered by the same company.

- Wrap Fee: A wrap fee is a type of bundled fee that is specific to a particular investment product. The wrap fee is charged by a wrap fee sponsor for investment management services and typically includes associated transaction costs that cannot be separately identified. Wrap fees can be all-inclusive, asset-based fees and may include a combination of investment management fees, transaction costs, custody fees, and/or administrative fees.

To help prospective clients better understand the nature of the fees charged for a particular investment product, and to facilitate comparison of bundled fee products offered by different firms, it is recommended that firms disclose the types of fees included in the bundled fee.
### Sample Disclosure:
“Portfolios within the composite pay a bundled fee, which includes all charges for transaction costs, portfolio management fees, and custody fees.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions