---
tags: []
---
Links: [[8. GIPS Advertising Guidelines]]
___
# 8.D.1
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM SHOULD disclose the [[COMPOSITE DESCRIPTION]].
## Discussion
To help a reader of a GIPS Advertisement more fully understand the composite being presented, it is recommended that a firm disclose the composite description in the GIPS Advertisement. The composite description is general information regarding the investment mandate, objective, or strategy of the composite. The composite description must include all key features of the composite and must include enough information to allow a reader of the advertisement to understand the key characteristics of the composite’s investment mandate, objective, or strategy, including:
- the material risks of the composite’s strategy,
- how leverage, derivatives, and short positions may be used, if they are a material part of the strategy, and
- if illiquid investments are a material part of the strategy.

The recommended disclosure of the composite description provides information about the composite’s investment strategy that is intended to help a reader of the GIPS Advertisement who is reviewing a GIPS Advertisement for that composite. The composite description should provide sufficient information to readers of the advertisement to allow them to differentiate the significant features of the composite’s strategy from other strategies within the firm and to compare products across firms. The disclosed strategy features will likely affect both the historical and expected risk and returns. Along with the recommended disclosure of the benchmark description (see Provision [[8.D.3]]), the GIPS Advertisement will allow the reader to understand both the investment strategy employed and the benchmark against which the composite’s performance is evaluated. This will help the reader to compare investments across firms.

If leverage, derivatives, and short positions may be used, and they are a material part of the strategy, this must be disclosed in the composite description. Provision [[8.D.2]] recommends that the firm disclose how leverage, derivatives, and short positions have been used historically, if material. Taken together, these two recommended disclosures provide a more complete picture about the presence, use, and extent of leverage, derivatives, and short positions. When determining what would be material, the firm must consider whether the disclosure of how leverage, derivatives, and/or short positions are used and/or have been used historically is likely to affect a reader’s view of the risk involved in the strategy. If so, the firm must consider if it would be misleading for the firm to fail to disclose their use to the reader when describing the strategy.

Generally, all investment products or strategies have some degree of inherent risk (e.g., market risk), but it is not intended that the composite description identifies every risk of the strategy. Instead, firms must identify those material risks of the strategy, if any, and must disclose those risks. For example, investment concentration, correlation (or lack thereof), liquidity, and exposure to counterparties are features that may need to be included in the composite description. (See Provision [[3.A.5]] for additional guidance on composite descriptions.)

The key characteristics of some strategies may change in response to market events. Firms should periodically review composite descriptions to ensure they are current.

Given the abbreviated nature of an advertisement, there may be times when firms may wish to use a shorter composite description in a GIPS Advertisement rather than the composite description used in the corresponding GIPS Composite Report. The following examples illustrate how a composite description can be shortened for an advertisement while still conveying the essential features of the composite’s strategy.
### Sample Disclosures:
- Composite Description Included in a GIPS Composite Report
	- “The Leveraged Bond Composite includes all institutional segregated portfolios invested in a diversified range of high-yield corporate and government bonds with the aim of providing investors with a high level of income while seeking to maximize the total return. The portfolios are invested in domestic and international fixed-income securities of varying maturities. The strategy allows investment in exchange-traded and OTC derivative contracts (including, but not limited to, options, futures, swaps, and forward currency contracts) for the purposes of risk, volatility, and currency exposure management. The strategy allows leverage up to but not exceeding twice the value of a portfolio’s investments through the use of repurchase financing arrangements with counterparties. Inherent in derivative instrument investments is the risk of counterparty default. Leverage may also magnify losses as well as gains to the extent that leverage is used. The benchmark is the XYZ Capital Global Aggregate Bond Index.”
- Composite Description Included in a GIPS Advertisement
	- “The Leveraged Bond Composite’s strategy invests in a diversified range of high-yield corporate and government bonds. The portfolios are invested in domestic and international fixed-income securities of varying maturities. The strategy allows investment in exchange-traded and OTC derivatives for the purposes of risk, volatility, and currency exposure management. The strategy allows leverage up to but not exceeding twice the value of a portfolio’s investments. The benchmark is the XYZ Capital Global Aggregate Bond Index.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions