---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 7.B.4
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM SHOULD present an appropriate [[EX POST]] risk measure for the [[POOLED FUND]] and the BENCHMARK. The same [[EX POST]] risk measure should be presented for the [[POOLED FUND]] and the BENCHMARK.
## Discussion
Evaluating past performance requires an understanding of the risks taken to achieve the results. Although firms are required to include a qualitative narrative of material risks as part of the pooled fund description, firms should also include an ex post risk measure for the pooled fund and benchmark. Any risk measure presented must be calculated on an ex post basis and be based on actual historical data. Some examples of ex post risk measures that may be presented include drawdown measures, interest rate risk measures (e.g., duration), credit risk measures (e.g., credit spread), and liquidity risk measures. Because no quantitative risk measure is required for pooled funds that present money-weighted returns, all risk measures presented are considered additional risk measures.

If the firm chooses to present an ex post risk measure for the pooled fund and benchmark, the same ex post risk measure should be presented for the pooled fund and benchmark. The risk measure must be one that the firm determines is appropriate for the pooled fund. When choosing an appropriate ex post risk measure to present, the firm should satisfy itself that there are sufficient data points for the selected risk measure to be statistically significant so as not to be misleading. Firms are required to describe any additional risk measure that is included in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report (see Provision [[7.C.36]]).
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions