---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 7.B.1
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM SHOULD present annualized SINCE-INCEPTION MONEY-WEIGHTED [[POOLED FUND GROSS RETURN|POOLED FUND GROSS RETURNS]] and SINCE-INCEPTION MONEY-WEIGHTED [[POOLED FUND NET RETURN|POOLED FUND NET RETURNS]] as of each annual period end.
## Discussion
A firm is required to present either a since-inception money-weighted pooled fund gross return or since-inception money-weighted pooled fund net return in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report that presents money-weighted returns. Each type of return provides important information to prospective investors.

Because a since-inception money-weighted pooled fund gross return is the return on investments reduced by any transaction costs, it is the best measure of the firm’s investment management ability and can be thought of as the “investment return.” In addition, because fees are sometimes negotiable, pooled fund gross returns show the firm’s expertise in managing assets without the effect of the firm’s or investor’s negotiating skills. Gross returns also allow prospective investors to better compare performance between firms.

Since-inception money-weighted pooled fund net returns reflect the deduction of all pooled fund fees and costs, including investment management fees, administrative fees, and other costs. Pooled fund net returns therefore provide the best indication to prospective investors of the returns that the firm’s investors in a particular fund received or would have received over time, after taking into account the effect of all fees and costs associated with the pooled fund.

Because both pooled fund gross returns and pooled fund net returns provide important information to prospective investors, it is recommended that firms present both since-inception money-weighted pooled fund gross returns and since-inception money-weighted pooled fund net returns in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report.

Also, while a firm is required to present only the annualized pooled fund since-inception money-weighed return (SI-MWR) through the most recent annual period end, it is recommended that the firm also present SI-MWRs as of each annual period end. Doing so will provide prospective investors with a more complete picture of the performance of the pooled fund over time.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions