---
tags: []
---
Links: [[6. Pooled Fund Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 6.D.5
## Standard for Firms
If a parent company contains multiple firms, each firm within the parent company SHOULD disclose a list of the other firms contained within the parent company.
## Discussion
The term “firm” is used in two different ways in Provision [[6.D.5]] “firm” is used to indicate an entity that claims compliance with the GIPS standards, whereas “firm” is used to indicate an entity that may or may not claim compliance with the GIPS standards. The definition of a firm will be based on the specific circumstances of the firm but must reflect how the firm is held out to the public as a distinct business entity. In some cases, a parent company may have two or more units, divisions, departments, or offices that are defined as separate firms within the context of the GIPS standards. To avoid confusion, a firm claiming compliance with the GIPS standards must be sure that it is clearly defined relative to the other firms within the parent company and that it is apparent which firm is claiming compliance. In the interest of fair representation and full disclosure, firms should disclose a list of the other organizations within the parent company. Firms should also consider indicating which organizations within the parent company claim compliance with the GIPS standards.
### Sample Disclosure:
“ABC Institutional Investment Management is the institutional division of ABC parent company. The private banking division of ABC parent company also claims compliance with the GIPS standards, whereas the retail division of ABC parent company does not claim compliance with the GIPS standards.”
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions