---
tags: []
---
Links: [[6. Pooled Fund Time-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 6.B.9
## Standard for Firms
For REAL ESTATE POOLED FUNDS, the FIRM SHOULD present [[POOLED FUND]] and BENCHMARK [[COMPONENT RETURNS]] for all periods presented.
## Discussion
For real estate pooled funds, it is recommended that firms also present pooled fund and benchmark component returns in addition to total returns. Component returns separate the total return into a capital return and an income return. Component returns provide additional information to prospective investors regarding the sources of the total return and the nature of the investment strategy. The income return is generally viewed as more stable than the capital return. Real estate investors typically want to know the contribution from the income and capital returns.

The following are examples of formulas that may be used to calculate the income return and capital return for a real estate pooled fund. The formulas presented use the following terms:
_r<sub>t</sub><sup>GI</sup>_ = gross income return for period _tr<sub>t</sub><sup>NI</sup>_ = net income return for period _tr<sub>t</sub><sup>GC</sup>_ = gross capital return for period _tr<sub>t</sub><sup>NC</sup>_ = net capital return for period _t_
_r<sub>t</sub><sup>GT</sup>_ = gross total return for period _t_

_r<sub>t</sub><sup>NT</sup>_ = net total return for period _t_

_r<sub>t</sub><sup>NF</sup>_ = net-of-fees total return for period _t_

_NII<sup>t</sup>_ = net investment income (after interest expense, advisory fees, and any performance-based fees allocated to the income component for performance calculation purposes) for period _t_

_AF<sub>t</sub>_ = advisory fee (asset-based portion of investment management fee expensed, including any acquisition and disposition fees that are included as an advisory fee and excluding any performance-based fees) for period _t_

_PF<sub>t</sub><sup>C</sup>_ = performance-based fees allocated to the capital component (for performance calculation purposes) for period _t_

_PF<sub>t</sub><sup>I</sup>_ = performance-based fees allocated to the income component (for performance calculation purposes) for period _t_

_V<sub>t</sub><sup>B</sup>_= the beginning value of the pooled fund for period _t_

_V<sub>t</sub><sup>E</sup>_ = the ending value of the pooled fund for period _t_

_FC<sub>t</sub>_ = fees charged by the firm and capitalized for accounting purposes but treated as an investment management fee for performance purposes for the period _t_ (including acquisition and disposition fees)

_j_ = the number of external cash flows (1, 2, 3, . . . , _j_) in period _t_

_CF<sub>j,t</sub>_ = the value of cash flow _j_ in period _t_

_W<sub>j,t</sub>_ = the weight of cash flow _j_ in period _t_ (assuming the cash flow occurred at the end of the day) as calculated according to the following formula:

_W<sub>j,t</sub>_ = (D<sub>t</sub> - D<sub>j,t</sub>) / D<sub>t</sub>

where

_W<sub>j,t</sub>_ = the weight of cash flow _j_ in period _t_, assuming the cash flow occurred at the end of the day D<sub>t</sub> = the total number of calendar days in period _tD<sub>j,t</sub>_ = the number of calendar days from the beginning of period _t_ to cash flow _j_

Acquisition, disposition, and financing services performed by the firm, an affiliate of the firm, or a third party on a particular transaction are considered transaction costs and must be deducted from both pooled fund gross returns and pooled fund net returns. These items (also referred to as “brokerage expenses”) are direct costs incurred upon implementation of a particular investment transaction and are considered transaction costs. It is recommended that these transaction costs be accounted for through the capital returns. Please note that the acquisition and disposition transaction costs described earlier are different from investment management fees specifically associated with acquisition and disposition services performed by the firm. It is common practice in the real estate industry to have investment management agreements separate the investment management fee into one or more of the following components: base investment management, acquisition, disposition, and financing. In this scenario, the fees specifically relating to acquisition and disposition are typically considered to be part of the investment management fee because these relate to the investment management responsibilities performed by the firm in formulating its investment decisions as part of the normal investment decision-making process. Financing fees, if applicable, are typically identified separately in the investment management agreement and are classified as transaction costs because they are usually related to post-acquisition refinancing.

The term “net investment income” is intended to reflect the effect of ownership and financing structures and includes all underlying property-level activity. Investment-level returns are distinct from property-level returns. Investment-level returns reflect the effect of ownership and financing structures and include all underlying property-level activity. Property-level returns exclude all of the non-property (investment-level) balance sheet items, as well as income and expenses, and include only those income and expenses that directly relate to the operation of the property. Property-level returns are not used for reporting performance in compliance with the GIPS standards, although they may be shown as supplemental information.

[[INCOME RETURN|Income Return Calculation]]

[[CAPITAL RETURN|Capital Return Calculation]]

[[TOTAL RETURN|Total Return Calculation]]
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions