---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 6.B.1
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM SHOULD present both [[POOLED FUND GROSS RETURN|POOLED FUND GROSS RETURNS]] and [[POOLED FUND NET RETURN|POOLED FUND NET RETURNS]].
## Discussion
A firm may choose to present either pooled fund gross returns or pooled fund net returns in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report. A firm may also choose to present both pooled fund gross returns and pooled fund net returns in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report. Each type of return provides important information to prospective investors.

Because a pooled fund gross return is the return on investments reduced by any transaction costs, it is the best measure of the firm’s investment management ability and can be thought of as the “investment return.” In addition, because fees are sometimes negotiable, presenting pooled fund gross returns shows the firm’s expertise in managing assets without the effect of the firm’s or investor’s negotiating skills. Pooled fund gross returns also allow prospective investors to better compare performance between firms.

A pooled fund net return reflects the deduction of all pooled fund fees and costs, including investment management fees, administrative fees, and other costs. Pooled fund net returns therefore provide the best indication to prospective investors of the returns that the firm’s investors in a particular fund received or would have received over time, after taking into account the effect of all fees and costs associated with the pooled fund.

Because both pooled fund gross returns and pooled fund net returns provide important information to prospective investors, it is recommended that firms present both pooled fund gross returns and pooled fund net returns in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions