---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 6.B.5
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM SHOULD present relevant [[EX POST]] [[ADDITIONAL RISK MEASURES]] for the [[POOLED FUND]] and the BENCHMARK.
## Discussion
For pooled funds for which monthly pooled fund returns are available, firms must present the three-year annualized ex post standard deviation (using monthly returns) of the pooled fund and the benchmark as of each annual period end. This is required for periods ending on or after 1 January 2011. (See Provision [[6.A.1.h]]) Additional risk measures are risk measures included in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report beyond those required to be presented. It is recommended that firms present relevant ex post additional risk measures for the pooled fund and benchmark in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report. Currently, there is no single risk measure that comprehensively and consistently captures every risk to which an asset class, product, or strategy is exposed or sensitive. Also, there may be additional risk measures that would be especially helpful to prospective investors when interpreting a pooled fund’s return. There are many risk and quantitative measures that are routinely calculated to help a reader evaluate and understand the return and risk characteristics of a particular investment strategy. Determining which risk measures are relevant to a pooled fund requires an understanding of the characteristics and limitations of each measure and insight into the portfolio construction process and investment strategy. Several risk measures are commonly used within the industry, but there is less of a consensus over what constitutes relevant risk measures when evaluating pooled funds containing derivatives, alternatives, and/or illiquid assets. Some firms have developed proprietary measures, which, despite providing insight into the strategy, make comparisons across managers problematic.

A number of factors should be considered when selecting relevant risk measures, including the following:
- Comparability: The risk measure selected should allow objective comparisons across firms to be made.
- Computational transparency: All inputs to the calculation should be readily available and understood.
- Interpretational transparency: In isolation as a single figure or presented as a time series, the risk measure should aid interpretation and provide context to the performance figures presented.
- Investment process or strategy consistency: The risk measure should provide insight into the underlying investment process.
- Risk measure stability: The selected risk measure should be sensitive to market and portfolio movements but should not exhibit excessive range swings such that interpretation of the absolute and relative values is compromised.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions