---
tags: []
---
Links: [GIPS Website](https://www.gipsstandards.org/), [GIPS Handbook PDF](https://www.cfainstitute.org/-/media/documents/code/gips/2020-gips-standards-asset-owners.ashx#:~:text=The%20final%20version%20of%20the,issued%20on%2030%20June%202019.&The%20GIPS%20standards%20were%20originally,to%20Asset%20Owners%20was%20issued.) , [Q&A Database](https://www.gipsstandards.org/standards/gips-standards-for-firms/q-a-database/)
___
# Introduction
The Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS®) for Firms are divided into eight sections, which are as follows:

1. Fundamentals of Compliance
2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology
3. Composite and Pooled Fund Maintenance
4. Composite Time-Weighted Return Report
5. Composite Money-Weighted Return Report
6. Pooled Fund Time-Weighted Return Report
7. Pooled Fund Money-Weighted Return Report
8. GIPS Advertising Guidelines.

The Explanation of the Provisions in Sections 1-8 provides interpretation of each provision contained in Sections 1-8. Firms that choose to comply with the GIPS standards must comply with all applicable requirements of the GIPS standards, including any Guidance Statements, interpretations, and Questions and Answers (Q&As) published by CFA Institute and the GIPS standards governing bodies.

[[1. Fundamentals of Compliance]]
The Fundamentals of Compliance section includes several core principles that create the foundation for the GIPS standards, including properly defining the firm, providing GIPS Reports to all prospective clients and pooled fund prospective investors, adhering to applicable laws and regulations, and ensuring that information presented is not false or misleading.

[[2. Input Data and Calculation Methodology]]
Consistency of input data used to calculate performance is critical to effective compliance with the GIPS standards and establishes the foundation for full, fair, and comparable investment performance presentations. Achieving comparability among investment management firms’ performance presentations requires uniformity in methods used to calculate returns. The GIPS standards mandate the use of certain calculation methodologies to facilitate comparability. The Input Data and Calculation Methodology section addresses these topics.

[[3. Composite and Pooled Fund Maintenance]]
A composite is an aggregation of one or more portfolios managed according to a similar investment mandate, objective, or strategy. The composite return is the asset-weighted average of the performance of all portfolios in the composite. Creating meaningful composites is essential to the fair presentation, consistency, and comparability of performance over time and among firms. Pooled funds must be included in composites if they meet a composite definition.

[[4. Composite Time-Weighted Return Report]]
Section 4 includes the requirements and recommendations for preparing a GIPS Composite Report that includes time-weighted returns. Firms that prepare a GIPS Composite Report that includes time-weighted returns must include the required numerical information and disclosures specified in Section 4, if applicable to the specific composite.

[[5. Composite Money-Weighted Return Report]]
Section 5 includes the requirements and recommendations that apply to composites that include money-weighted returns in a GIPS Composite Report, when the firm meets the requirements specified in Provision 1.A.35 and chooses to present money-weighted returns.

[[6. Pooled Fund Time-Weighted Return Report]]  
Section 6 includes the requirements and recommendations for preparing a GIPS Pooled Fund Report that includes time-weighted returns. Firms that prepare a GIPS Pooled Fund Report that includes time-weighted returns must include the required numerical information and disclosures specified in Section 6, if applicable to the specific pooled fund.

[[7. Pooled Fund Money-Weighted Return Report]]  
Section 7 includes the requirements and recommendations that apply to pooled funds that include money-weighted returns in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report, when the firm meets the requirements specified in Provision 1.A.35 and chooses to present money-weighted returns.

[[8. GIPS Advertising Guidelines]]  
Section 8 includes the requirements and recommendations for preparing a GIPS Advertisement. Firms that prepare a GIPS Advertisement must include the required numerical information and disclosures specified in Section 8, if applicable to the specific composite or pooled fund.

Each provision in each section is included in a grey text box. Within the provisions are words appearing in small capital letters. This indicates defined terms that can be found in the GIPS Standards Glossary. Following each provision is a discussion that provides interpretive guidance to help readers understand the provision.