---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: 
___
# 3.A.19
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST NOT combine different [[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]], POOLED FUNDS, or [[CARVE-OUT|CARVE-OUTS]] to create a simulated strategy and present it as a [[COMPOSITE]].
## Discussion
All composite assets must include only actual assets managed by the firm in the respective strategy. (See Provision [[2.A.2]].) Therefore, a firm must not combine different composites, pooled funds, or carve-outs to create a simulated strategy and present it as a composite. For example, if the performance of actual portfolios in an equity composite is combined with the performance of actual portfolios in a fixed-income composite to show what the results might have been had the equity strategy and fixed-income strategy been combined, the results would be considered a simulated strategy. Even though the returns for the equity and fixed-income composites are based on actual assets managed by the firm, the arbitrary method of combining them historically is subject to manipulation and does not represent real-time, actual asset allocation decisions. The performance results of this simulated strategy would, therefore, be considered hypothetical performance. This would also be true for combinations of different composites, pooled funds, or carve-outs to create a simulated strategy.

A hypothetical blend based on the performance of actual component composites may be included in a GIPS Report as supplemental information only if all the component composites, and the associated GIPS Reports on which the hypothetical blend is based, are included in the GIPS Report. In addition, the hypothetical blend must relate to all composites represented in the GIPS Report. For example, when combining a fixed-income composite and an equity composite to create a balanced portfolio, the blend may be shown as supplemental information in a GIPS Report if it includes the GIPS Report for both the fixed-income composite and the equity composite.

The prohibition against combining different composites, pooled funds, or carve-outs to create a simulated strategy does not prohibit the creation and presentation of composites that are often referred to as “umbrella” or “parent” composites. An umbrella composite is a broadly defined composite that includes portfolios from more narrowly defined composites. Umbrella composites are commonly used for fixed-income composites, in which the umbrella composite is based on the investment mandate and the more narrowly defined subset or “child” composites are based on specific benchmarks. As an example, a firm might have an Intermediate-Maturity Fixed-Income Composite as an umbrella composite that includes all fixed-income portfolios with an intermediate-maturity mandate. A subset composite might include the Intermediate-Maturity ABC Index Composite (all intermediate-maturity fixed-income portfolios with the ABC US Intermediate Aggregate Index as the benchmark) and the Intermediate-Maturity XYZ Index Composite (all intermediate-maturity fixed-income portfolios with the XYZ Intermediate Aggregate Index as the benchmark).

Another example of an umbrella or parent composite would be a Large-Cap Composite that includes all of the firm’s large-cap portfolios. Subsets of this composite might include a Large-Cap Growth Composite (all of the firm’s large-cap growth portfolios) and a Large-Cap Value Composite (all of the firm’s large-cap value portfolios).
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions