---
tags: []
---
Links: [[3. Composite and Pooled Fund Maintenance]]
___
# 3.A.12
## Standard for Firms
A FIRM that removes PORTFOLIOS from [[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]] because of SIGNIFICANT CASH FLOWS MUST define “significant” on an [[EX ANTE]], [[COMPOSITE]]-specific basis and MUST consistently follow the [[COMPOSITE]]-specific policy.
## Discussion
For the purposes of the GIPS standards, an external cash flow is defined as capital (cash or investments) that enters or exits a portfolio. A significant cash flow is defined as the level at which the firm determines that a client-directed external cash flow may temporarily prevent the firm from implementing the composite strategy. The firm may define a significant cash flow as a single flow or an aggregate of a number of flows within a stated period of time. Transfers of assets between asset classes within a portfolio or firm-initiated cash flows must not be considered significant cash flows and must not be used to move portfolios out of composites on a temporary basis.

Firms that wish to remove portfolios from composites in cases of significant cash flows must define “significant” on an ex ante, composite-specific basis and must consistently follow the composite-specific policy. Note that a significant cash flow policy is not appropriate for a composite that presents money-weighted returns (MWRs) and is intended only for composites that present time-weighted returns. This is because, in the case of MWRs, the timing of cash flows is under the firm’s control. The concept of a significant cash flow also does not apply to a pooled fund presented in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report.

Once a significant cash flow policy is established for a composite, the firm must remove from the composite all portfolios that experience a significant cash flow. Firms must establish policies for the timing of excluding portfolios that experience significant cash flows from composites, as well as policies for the timing of re-including those portfolios in composites. These policies must be established on a composite-specific basis. A significant cash flow definition or policy may be changed, as long as it is done prospectively and the change is documented in the firm’s policies and procedures. Changes to a significant cash flow definition or policy must not be applied retroactively. If a firm is initially coming into compliance with the GIPS standards and is building a compliant track record, however, the firm may establish a significant cash flow policy for a composite and apply that significant cash flow policy as it constructs a composite’s history. If a significant cash flow policy is being constructed historically for a newly created composite, a significant cash flow level must not be established with the intent of increasing composite performance.

The significant cash flow definition for a composite may be influenced by the characteristics of the asset class(es) within the strategy, such as market liquidity, and/or by the firm’s trading capabilities. For instance, a significant cash flow may be considered 10% of a portfolio’s value for an emerging market fixed-income composite but may be in excess of 50% of a portfolio’s value for a more liquid composite, such as European equities. In theory, the determination of significance should be based primarily on the liquidity of the asset class and the investment strategy employed. Because of the dynamic nature of global markets and the inherent subjectivity involved, it is impractical to establish absolute levels of significance for each asset class.

The measure of significance must be determined as either a specific monetary amount (e.g., €50,000,000) or a percentage of portfolio assets (based on the most recent valuation). No other criteria, such as the impact or lack of impact of the significant cash flow on the respective portfolio’s performance, may be considered.

If a firm has a single portfolio in a composite and that portfolio is temporarily removed from the composite because of the firm’s significant cash flow policy, the composite’s track record is broken and its continuous performance history ends. Once the portfolio is added back to the composite and the composite performance is restarted, the performance history must be presented for periods both before and after the break and cannot be linked across the break. If the break in performance occurred more than 10 years ago or before the firm claimed compliance with the GIPS standards, the performance prior to the break does not need to be presented. In all other cases, the firm must present the performance both prior to and after the performance break.

It is important to be aware of the difference between a large cash flow and a significant cash flow. Large cash flows apply only when daily returns are not calculated. A large cash flow is the level at which the firm determines that an external cash flow may distort the return if the portfolio is not valued and a sub-period return is not calculated. Portfolios that experience a large cash flow remain in the composite. A significant cash flow is the level at which the firm determines that one or more client-directed external cash flows may temporarily prevent the firm from implementing the composite strategy. Portfolios that experience a significant cash flow are temporarily removed from the composite.

As an example, suppose that a firm is establishing policies and procedures for a newly established long-maturity bond strategy. The firm currently values portfolios monthly. As part of determining the valuation policies for this strategy, the performance team asks the following question: Is there a level at which an external cash flow could distort a portfolio’s monthly return if the portfolio is not valued and a sub-period return is not calculated? When discussing this issue with the fixed-income team, the performance team determines that an external cash flow of 5% or more could distort a portfolio’s return. The firm, therefore, establishes a large cash flow policy for the composite that states that any portfolio managed in the strategy would be revalued in the event of an external cash flow of 5% or greater. The next question is whether there is a level at which an external cash flow would be so significant that it would actually prevent the firm from implementing the composite strategy for the portfolio. A cash flow of 5% would require valuation at the time of the cash flow, but the portfolio would still be considered to be representative of the strategy.  
It would therefore have to be a bigger external cash flow to cause the portfolio to be no longer representative of the composite strategy. Discussion with the fixed-income team determines that total external cash flows of 15% or more during a calendar month would be significant enough to prevent a portfolio from being representative of the style. The firm therefore establishes a large cash flow policy of 5% and a significant cash flow policy of 15% for its long-maturity bond strategy.

As the example illustrates, the levels used to define large cash flows and significant cash flows will not be the same. The significant cash flow level for a composite must be higher than the large cash flow level. This is because a large cash flow is the level that would require a portfolio to be valued (where daily returns are not calculated) but the portfolio is still considered to be discretionary and remains in the composite. In contrast, a significant cash flow is the level at which the portfolio is no longer representative of the composite strategy and is removed from the composite because the external cash flow disrupts implementation of the investment strategy.

A firm must not adopt a significant cash flow policy solely for the purpose of reducing or eliminating the number of instances when portfolios must be valued because of large cash flows. The significant cash flow level chosen by the firm for a specific composite must represent the firm’s estimate of the level of cash flows that would potentially disrupt the investment strategy’s implementation. Significant cash flow levels and large cash flow levels must be established independently.

As an alternative to a significant cash flow policy, when a portfolio is removed from the composite, it is recommended that a firm use a temporary new account. (See Provision [[3.B.2]].) This approach allows a firm to create a new portfolio into which a client’s contributions and withdrawals are directed. Provision [[3.A.13]] provides a further discussion of the use of temporary new accounts to remove the effects of significant cash flows.

Firms may establish a significant cash flow policy that exempts certain types of external cash flows. For example, a client may use a transition manager to move a cash inflow to the firm in the form of assets that the firm has directed to be purchased. The inflow does not prevent the firm from implementing the composite’s strategy, so the significant cash flow policy for this composite would not apply in this instance.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions