---
tags: []
---
Links: [[3. Composite and Pooled Fund Maintenance]]
___
# 3.A.6
## Standard for Firms
Any change to a [[COMPOSITE DEFINITION]] MUST NOT be applied retroactively.
## Discussion
Although investment strategies can change over time, in most cases firms should not change the definition of a composite. Generally, changes in strategy result in the creation of a new composite. In some cases, however, it may be appropriate to redefine a composite. If a firm determines that it is appropriate to redefine a composite, it must disclose the date and description of the redefinition. Changes to composites must not be applied retroactively.

When there are changes related to strategy implementation, the firm must determine if the changes to the composite’s investment process or personnel result in a change in the investment strategy of the portfolios in the composite. If the firm determines that the changes result in a new investment strategy offered by the firm, a new composite must be started with a current composite creation date and no composite history. The firm must clearly document its decision and rationale. If the changes in resources, process, and personnel do not result in a change in investment strategy, the firm must not create a new composite but must revise the composite description and composite definition where appropriate.

Note that if a firm chooses to create a new composite to reflect a new investment strategy, the firm may move portfolios that meet the new composite definition into the new composite. The history of existing portfolios must remain with the original composite.

The following are some examples of changes in investment strategy and resulting composite changes.

### Examples

> [!EXAMPLE]+ Example 1: Evolution of a Composite Strategy
> 
> _A firm has a mid-cap equity composite. It is decided that the composite will begin using futures to fully invest any cash balances. Most client guidelines permit the use of futures, but some do not. The firm does not wish to continue to offer a mid-cap strategy that does not use futures._
> 
> The firm is permitted to view this change as an evolution of its existing mid-cap strategy rather than as the creation of a new strategy. It must change its composite description and composite definition to indicate the use of futures and the date on which the use of futures began. The portfolios that allow the use of futures remain in the composite.
> 
> Because the firm did not wish to continue to offer a mid-cap strategy that does not use futures, the firm would consider the mid-cap portfolios that do not allow the use of futures to be non-discretionary portfolios and exclude these portfolios from all composites on a prospective basis.
> 
> If instead the firm wished to continue to also offer a mid-cap strategy that does not use futures, as a variation of its mid-cap strategy, the firm would create a new composite for mid-cap portfolios that do not use futures. The mid-cap portfolios that do not use futures would be moved to the new composite with a new composite creation date.

> [!EXAMPLE]+ Example 2: Combining Composite Strategies
> 
> _A firm currently has two small-cap equity composites. The investment mandate is the same for both composites, but the permissible market-cap range differs. One composite invests in small-cap stocks with market caps ranging between $100 million and $1.0 billion. The second composite invests in stocks ranging from $500 million to $1.5 billion. The firm would like to expand, with client acceptance, the market-cap range for all portfolios in each composite so that all of the firm’s small-cap portfolios could invest in stocks ranging from $100 million to $1.5 billion, eliminating the need for two composites._
> 
> If the firm decides to create a new strategy by expanding the permissible size range for all small cap portfolios, the firm must create a new composite. The new composite will consist of all the small-cap portfolios in the two composites. The two existing small-cap composites will cease to exist. The new small-cap composite will not have historical performance results because the new composite’s strategy (the expanded market-cap range) is newly implemented. The firm must include the two terminated small-cap composites on the list of composite descriptions for at least five years after the composites’ termination date. The firm must obtain any needed client approval for the change in investment mandate and must appropriately document the creation of the new small-cap composite and the termination of the former small-cap composites.

> [!EXAMPLE]+ Example 3: Redefinition of a Composite Based on Historical Tactical Decisions
> 
> _For the past five years, a firm has offered a global equity composite. The firm defined the strategy to allow investments in equity securities from any geographic area, but the firm tactically did not hold any Japanese equities during that time. The firm has now decided that its global equity strategy will not allow investments in Japanese stocks. It therefore wants to redefine the composite as global equities ex-Japan._
> 
> Redefining the composite as a global equities ex-Japan composite is not permitted. Historically, the firm did not actually manage the assets in a global equities ex-Japan style. The original composite had a broad global investment mandate that could have included investments in Japan. The firm made a tactical decision not to own Japanese equity securities. Redefining the composite’s strategy more narrowly would not accurately reflect the composite’s historical investment strategy and would not provide an accurate history of the mandate. The firm is accountable for the tactical decision not to own any Japanese securities. If the firm wishes to offer a global equities ex-Japan composite, it must create a new composite with an investment mandate that reflects the lack of Japanese investments as a strategic decision and not a tactical one. With clients’ permission, the firm may move clients into the new global equities ex-Japan composite. The new composite would have no historical track record. The firm may continue the existing global equity strategy or terminate the global equity composite and find other investment options for clients who do not wish to move into the global equities ex-Japan composite.

> [!EXAMPLE]+ Example 4: Umbrella Composites
> 
> _A firm manages two composites in a mid-cap equity strategy. One composite is based on fundamental research, and the other is a quantitative strategy. The firm would like to create an “umbrella” composite to illustrate the performance of its mid-cap strategies while continuing to market both of its mid-cap strategies._
> 
> An umbrella composite is a broadly defined composite that includes portfolios from more narrowly defined composites. In this case, the umbrella composite represents the firm’s mid-cap equity strategies. The firm will include all of the portfolios from its two mid-cap equity composites in the umbrella composite. The umbrella composite’s track record will therefore be a combination of the track records of both mid-cap equity composites. The two mid-cap equity composites will continue to exist.
> 
> Umbrella composites may be created retroactively and would include the track records of the underlying composites. For an additional discussion of umbrella composites, please refer to Provision [[3.A.19]].

## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions