---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: 
___
# 3.A.14
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST include the performance record of actual WRAP FEE PORTFOLIOS in appropriate [[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]] in accordance with the FIRM’S established PORTFOLIO inclusion policies. Once established, these [[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]] (containing actual WRAP FEE PORTFOLIOS) MUST be used when presenting GIPS COMPOSITE REPORTS TO WRAP FEE PROSPECTIVE CLIENTS.
## Discussion
A wrap fee is a type of bundled fee specific to a particular investment product. The wrap fee is charged by a wrap fee sponsor for investment management services and typically includes associated transaction costs that cannot be separately identified. Wrap fees can be all-inclusive, asset-based fees and may include a combination of investment management fees, transaction costs, custody fees, and/or administrative fees. A wrap fee portfolio is sometimes referred to as a “separately managed account” or “managed account.”

Although the firm can use the same investment strategy for both wrap fee and non-wrap fee portfolios, it may not always have a direct relationship with the end user of its investment management services, even though these portfolios are often considered discretionary assets of the firm. Instead, multiple parties are involved in this business model, with a wrap fee sponsor serving as the intermediary between the firm and the end user of investment services. These factors are what distinguishes wrap fee portfolios and necessitates additional guidance for creating and maintaining composites that include wrap fee portfolios.
### Prior to Managing Wrap Fee Portfolios
A firm may wish to present performance to wrap fee prospective clients for a specific strategy for which the firm does not yet manage wrap fee portfolios. In such a case, the firm must not present the GIPS Composite Report created for non-wrap fee clients. Instead, the firm must calculate a wrap fee performance history for that specific strategy by using that strategy’s gross-of-fees non-wrap fee composite history reduced by the highest total wrap fee charged to the client (end user) by the wrap fee sponsor for the strategy (product). The result is net-of-fees wrap fee performance. Note that this approach is permissible only if the firm has no wrap fee portfolios under management for the strategy during the time periods for which the firm compiles the wrap fee performance using only non-wrap fee portfolios. As stated in Provision [[4.A.16]], when presenting performance to a wrap fee prospective client, the firm must present the percentage of composite assets represented by wrap fee portfolios as of each annual period end. If there are no wrap fee portfolios in the composite as of the annual period end, then the percentage of composite assets represented by wrap fee portfolios for that year end would be 0%. For an example of a GIPS Composite Report prepared for a wrap fee prospective client prior to the firm’s managing actual wrap fee portfolios, please refer to Appendix A.
### Once a Firm Acquires One or More Wrap Fee Portfolios
Once a firm acquires one or more wrap fee portfolios for management, the firm must include the performance of the actual wrap fee portfolio(s) in a composite that reflects the specific strategy of the wrap fee portfolios in accordance with the firm’s established portfolio inclusion policies. The firm must determine if it will combine wrap fee portfolios in a composite with non-wrap fee portfolios with the same strategy or if it will have a separate composite for non-wrap fee portfolios.

The firm has three options to consider:
- Retain the calculated history that had been shown to clients prior to the acquisition of a wrap fee portfolio (i.e., the strategy’s gross-of-fees non-wrap fee composite history reduced by the total model wrap fee), redefine the composite to include only actual wrap fee portfolios going forward, and include relevant disclosures related to the redefinition;
- Continue to include the ongoing performance of the non-wrap fee portfolios and combine it with performance of actual wrap fee portfolios; or
- Create a new composite that includes only wrap fee portfolios. The new composite will have no history prior to the date that wrap fee portfolios are first managed.

When presenting wrap fee performance to wrap fee prospective clients, the firm must choose one of these three options.

Firms must not redefine a composite on a retroactive basis. If a firm has chosen Option 2 and combines the ongoing performance of non-wrap fee portfolios with the performance of wrap fee portfolios, it may not retroactively strip those portfolios out of the composite at a later date in order to create a “wrap fee” composite history. At any point in time, however, the firm may choose to create a new composite that includes only wrap fee portfolios on a prospective basis. This composite would have no history prior to the composite creation date. The firm could then terminate the composite that includes both non-wrap fee portfolios and wrap fee portfolios if it wishes to do so.

The 2010 edition of the GIPS standards included the concept of a sponsor-specific wrap fee composite for the internal use of a wrap fee sponsor only. A sponsor-specific wrap fee composite included only the wrap fee portfolios that were managed for the particular wrap fee sponsor. **The concept of sponsor-specific wrap fee composites is considered to be client reporting to a specific wrap fee sponsor and has been eliminated in the 2020 edition of the GIPS standards.** A wrap fee composite must include all wrap fee portfolios managed in a specific investment strategy and must not be limited solely to the wrap fee portfolios managed for a specific wrap fee sponsor. Prospective clients for a specific wrap fee strategy must receive information about all portfolios managed in that strategy. Firms that previously maintained sponsor-specific composites would terminate any sponsor-specific wrap fee composites. Firms may remove these composites from the list of composite descriptions and are not required to include them on this list as terminated composites.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions