---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 3.A.4
## Standard for Firms
Non-fee-paying discretionary portfolios may be included in a composite. If the FIRM includes non-fee-paying discretionary PORTFOLIOS in a [[COMPOSITE]], those PORTFOLIOS MUST be subject to the same policies and procedures as fee-paying PORTFOLIOS.
## Discussion
If a portfolio (a segregated account or pooled fund) pays no investment management fee, it is considered a non-fee-paying portfolio. Examples of non-fee-paying portfolios are portfolios consisting of the firm’s own pension plan assets, a portfolio for a new strategy that currently consists only of a firm’s seed capital, or portfolios managed for friends or employees that are not charged investment management fees.

If a firm temporarily waives the investment management fee for a portfolio that is normally charged a fee, the portfolio is still considered a fee-paying portfolio (with a fee of zero for that period) and must be included in the appropriate composite. Some firms may manage portfolios that have a minimal investment management fee that is meant to cover operating or transaction costs. This arrangement is common for portfolios that are owned by friends and employees of the firm. If a portfolio has a very small investment management fee that is not representative of the investment management fee that a segregated account would typically pay, the firm must consider such a portfolio as fee-paying for purposes of composite inclusion. However, because the portfolio has only a minimal investment management fee that is not representative of the firm’s investment management fee for that strategy, the segregated account should be included in the percentage of composite assets that is non-fee paying. The percentage of composite assets that is non-fee paying is a required disclosure in GIPS Composite Reports when net-of-fees composite returns are presented and are calculated using actual investment management fees.

A firm is not required to include non-fee-paying discretionary portfolios in a composite but may choose to do so. Examples of non-fee-paying portfolios are portfolios consisting of the firm’s own pension plan assets or portfolios managed for friends or employees of the firm that are not charged investment management fees. If the firm chooses to include non-fee-paying discretionary portfolios in one or more of its composites, the firm is not required to include all non-fee-paying discretionary portfolios in composites. All non-fee-paying discretionary pooled funds meeting the definition of that composite must be included.

If the firm includes non-fee-paying discretionary portfolios in one or more of its composites, they are subject to the same policies and procedures as fee-paying portfolios (e.g., the firm must not move the non-fee-paying portfolio into and out of a composite without documented changes in client or pooled fund guidelines or unless the redefinition of the composite makes it appropriate).
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions