---
tags: []
---
Links: [[3. Composite and Pooled Fund Maintenance]]
___
# 3.A.18
## Standard for Firms
When the FIRM has or obtains standalone PORTFOLIOS managed in the same strategy as the [[CARVE-OUT|CARVE-OUTS]] with allocated cash, the FIRM MUST create a separate COMPOSITE for the standalone PORTFOLIOS.
## Discussion
A carve-out is a portion of a portfolio that is by itself representative of a distinct investment strategy. It may be used to create a track record for a narrower mandate from a multi-strategy or multi-asset-class portfolio managed to a broader mandate. At some point, a firm may obtain standalone portfolios managed in the same strategy as the carve-outs with allocated cash.

(A standalone portfolio is a portfolio that is not a portion of a larger portfolio.) The firm must then create a separate composite that contains only the standalone portfolios. The returns and composite assets of the composite that includes only standalone portfolios must be presented in the GIPS Composite Report for the composite that includes carve-outs with allocated cash. This presentation will allow a prospective client to compare the returns of the composite that includes carve-outs with allocated cash to the returns of the composite that contains only standalone portfolios. If the two composites have a significant performance difference, the prospective client has a chance to ask questions about the difference in returns. This provision applies only to situations in which the firm has created a composite that includes carve-outs with synthetically allocated cash.

It does not apply to composites in which the carve-outs included are carve-outs with their own cash balance.

Once a firm has obtained one or more standalone portfolios managed in the same style as the carve-outs with allocated cash, the firm has the following options for the maintenance of the composite that includes carve-outs with allocated cash. It can:
- continue to include only carve-outs with allocated cash in the composite;
- include both carve-outs with allocated cash and standalone portfolios in the composite;
- terminate the composite that includes carve-outs with allocated cash and maintain the composite that includes only standalone portfolios managed in the strategy; or
- redefine the composite to exclude carve-outs with allocated cash going forward.

Firms that wish to continue including carve-outs with allocated cash in the composite should also include standalone portfolios in the composite once standalone portfolios are obtained. Although firms are permitted to continue to include only carve-outs with allocated cash in the composite after they have obtained one or more standalone portfolios managed in the same strategy as the carve-outs with allocated cash, it is not encouraged or expected that many firms will do so.

Firms are reminded that, for all cases in which the firm has a composite that includes carve-outs with allocated cash, as well as standalone portfolios managed in the same strategy, the returns and composite assets of the composite that includes only standalone portfolios must be presented in the GIPS Composite Report for the composite that includes carve-outs with allocated cash.

If a carve-out with allocated cash is included in a composite for any period, the words “carve-out” must be indicated in the name of the composite. (See Provisions [[4.C.28]].a and [[5.C.27]].a.)

Carve-outs with allocated cash were permitted in composites prior to 1 January 2010 and prohibited from 1 January 2010 through 31 December 2019. Carve-outs with allocated cash are permitted for all periods, both prospectively and retrospectively, for firms that comply with the 2020 edition of the GIPS standards. The following examples provide guidance on what is required regarding the use of carve-outs with allocated cash that were created and used for periods prior to 1 January 2010.

### Example 1
A firm used carve-outs with allocated cash for one of its composites from 1 January 2007 through 31 December 2009. Starting 1 January 2010, when carve-outs with allocated cash were no longer permitted in composites, the firm created and used carve-outs with their own cash balance for that strategy. Even though the firm is permitted to use carve-outs with allocated cash once it complies with the 2020 edition of the GIPS standards, the firm will continue to use carve-outs with their own cash balance. The firm will continue to use the track record from carve-outs with allocated cash it had created and used for the periods prior to 1 January 2010. The firm asks whether it has to create a composite of standalone portfolios, as required by Provision 3.A.18, for the period prior to 1 January 2010 when carve-outs with allocated cash are included in the composite.

The firm may use the carve-outs it had created and used for the strategy prior to 1 January 2010 without adhering to Provision 3.A.18 regarding the creation of a separate composite for the strategy containing only standalone portfolios. In addition, the firm is not required to apply Provision [[4.C.28]].a and [[4.C.28]].d for GIPS Composite Reports that present time-weighted returns or [[5.C.27]].a and [[5.C.28]].d for GIPS Composite Reports that present money-weighted returns. These provisions require the indication of “carve-out” in the name of the composite and a disclosure that a GIPS Composite Report for a composite of standalone portfolios is available upon request. It is important to note that this exception applies only to carve-outs with allocated cash that were previously created and used prior to 1 January 2010. If the firm decides to create and use carve-outs with allocated cash for any periods after 1 January 2010, the requirements regarding the creation and presentation of a composite with standalone portfolios would apply, as would the disclosure requirements.

### Example 2
A firm notes that, in the 2020 edition of the GIPS standards, the use of carve-outs with allocated cash is permitted for all time periods. The firm had been using carve-outs with their own cash balances for one of their strategies from 1 January 2010 forward but now decides that it would like to extend its track record for that strategy by creating carve-outs with allocated cash for periods prior to 1 January 2010. It is unable to create carve-outs with their own cash balances for periods prior to that date.

If the firm retroactively creates carve-outs with allocated cash for any period, it must adhere to Provision 3.A.18. If the firm manages standalone portfolios in this strategy, it must create a composite for the standalone portfolios managed in the same strategy as the carve-outs with allocated cash and present the returns and composite assets of the composite that includes only standalone portfolios in the GIPS Composite Report for the carve-outs with allocated cash. The firm must also adhere to the disclosure requirements contained in [[4.C.28]].a and [[4.C.28]].d for GIPS Composite Reports that present time-weighted returns, as well as to the disclosure requirements in [[5.C.27]].a and [[5.C.27]].d for GIPS Composite Reports that present money-weighted returns.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions