---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 3.A.3
## Standard for Firms
All actual, fee-paying, discretionary POOLED FUNDS MUST be included in at least one COMPOSITE if they meet a [[COMPOSITE DEFINITION]]. The FIRM is not REQUIRED to create a COMPOSITE that only includes one or more POOLED FUNDS unless the FIRM offers the strategy as a SEGREGATED ACCOUNT. The FIRM may terminate any COMPOSITE that was created solely to include one or more POOLED FUNDS if the COMPOSITE is not representative of the FIRM’S strategy offered as a SEGREGATED ACCOUNT.
## Discussion
A pooled fund is a fund whose ownership interests may be held by more than one investor and is managed to a defined strategy on behalf of fund investors. A portfolio with a pooled fund wrapper (i.e., a single-investor pooled fund), which is unitized but not available to other investors, is treated as a segregated account and not a pooled fund. If a firm is the sub-advisor for a pooled fund, the firm must treat the pooled fund as a segregated account and not a pooled fund.

An actual pooled fund is a pooled fund invested in real, tangible assets and is differentiated from a hypothetical, simulated, or backtested track record for a pooled fund.

A fee-paying pooled fund incurs investment management fees, which are fees paid to the firm, either directly or indirectly, for the management of the pooled fund. If a pooled fund pays no investment management fees, it is considered a non-fee-paying pooled fund.

A firm is not required to include non-fee-paying pooled funds in a composite but may choose to do so. Examples of non-fee-paying pooled funds are pooled funds that include assets of only friends or employees of the firm that are not charged investment management fees, or a feeder fund in a master/feeder fund structure where all fees are charged at the master fund level. If the firm chooses to include non-fee-paying discretionary pooled funds in one or more of its composites, the firm is not required to include all non-fee-paying discretionary pooled funds in composites. If a firm chooses to include non-fee-paying discretionary portfolios in a specific composite, however, all non-fee-paying pooled funds meeting the definition of that composite must be included.

If the firm includes non-fee-paying discretionary pooled funds in its composites, they are subject to the same rules as fee-paying pooled funds (e.g., the firm must not move non-fee-paying pooled funds into and out of a composite unless documented changes in pooled fund guidelines or the redefinition of the composite makes it appropriate).

A discretionary pooled fund is one for which the firm has the ability to implement its intended strategy. Firms make the ultimate decision as to whether or not pooled fund restrictions render a pooled fund non-discretionary. Discretion may be defined at the segregated account, pooled fund, composite, asset class, or firm level. Once the definition of discretion has been determined, it must be documented in a firm’s GIPS standards policies and procedures and applied consistently. Firms should, where possible and appropriate, consider classifying pooled funds with defined restrictions as discretionary and grouping them with any other portfolios that have similar restrictions and are managed in the same strategy in a composite.

Non-discretionary pooled funds must not be included in a firm’s composites. Some firms, however, may group together some or all of the firm’s non-discretionary pooled funds in order to simplify account administration. For purposes of complying with the GIPS standards, such a group is not a composite and must not be included on the firm’s list of composite descriptions.

Because the intent of the GIPS standards is to accurately and fairly represent firm performance, all actual, fee-paying, discretionary pooled funds must be included in at least one composite if they meet a composite definition. A firm must include a pooled fund in more than one composite if it satisfies the definition of more than one composite. This requirement ensures that a firm presents a complete picture of its performance record. Without this requirement, there is a potential for firms to exclude poorly performing pooled funds from composites. If the firm includes portfolios in more than one composite, care must be taken to ensure that assets are not double counted when calculating total firm assets. A pooled fund must be counted only once, even if it is included in more than one composite. (See Provision [[2.A.3]].) Prior to 1 January 2020, firms were allowed to differentiate between segregated accounts and pooled funds when defining composites. For example, a firm could choose to create one composite for segregated accounts managed in the firm’s large-cap equity strategy and another composite for pooled funds managed in the same strategy. As of 1 January 2020, firms may no longer take this approach. On a prospective basis, pooled funds that are managed in a strategy that is managed for or offered as a segregated account must be included in the same composite as any segregated accounts managed or offered in that strategy. Under prior editions of the GIPS standards, a firm was required to include all portfolios, including pooled funds, in at least one composite. Under the 2020 edition of the GIPS standards, a firm is not required to create or maintain a composite that includes only one or more pooled funds if the firm does not offer the pooled fund strategy as a segregated account strategy.

Firms that complied with prior editions of the GIPS standards may terminate any composite that includes only one or more pooled funds if that composite is not representative of a strategy offered as a segregated account. A firm may choose to create a composite that includes only one or more pooled funds, however, even if the pooled fund strategy is not offered as a segregated account strategy.

There may be situations in which a firm offers a certain strategy only as a pooled fund but at a later date decides to offer the strategy as a segregated account as well. Once the firm begins to offer the strategy as a segregated account, it must then create a composite that will include only the pooled fund until it begins to manage segregated accounts in the strategy. The initial track record for the composite will be based on the pooled fund’s track record. It is also possible that the firm might begin to manage a segregated account in the strategy at the request of a client, even though the firm did not offer the strategy as a segregated account. Once the firm begins to manage a segregated account in the strategy, it must create a composite that includes both the pooled fund and the segregated account. The track record would be based on the track record of the pooled fund initially, because it is the first portfolio in the composite, and would subsequently include any segregated accounts managed in the strategy.

A pooled fund must be assigned to a composite if it meets a composite definition. A composite definition includes not only the composite strategy but also the criteria that determine whether and when a portfolio managed in the strategy represented by the composite is included in the composite. For a more complete explanation of a composite definition, please see Provision [[3.A.5]].

Pooled funds with different base currencies may be included in the same composite, but their assets and returns must be expressed in the same currency as that of the composite. If pooled funds managed in a specific strategy have different base currencies, firms should consider whether the effect of any hedging justifies creating multiple composites defined by both the mandate and hedging. If a pooled fund has multiple share classes, each of which is invested similarly but has a different base currency and there is no currency hedging, each share class may be included in the composite, but the firm must convert the returns and assets for all of the share classes to the same currency for inclusion in the composite. Alternatively, the firm may include in the composite one share class as a proxy for the total fund, if the converted returns for all share classes are the same or very similar. The firm would include the fair value of the assets of the total fund instead of the proxy share class.

It is the firm’s responsibility to ensure that all of its actual, fee-paying, discretionary pooled funds are included in any composite for which they meet the composite definition. Accordingly, firms must have policies and procedures to identify changes to a pooled fund (both discretionary and non-discretionary) that would require a pooled fund to be reclassified for composite assignment purposes. If a pooled fund changes from discretionary to non-discretionary status because of a new restriction and must be removed from a composite, the pooled fund must be removed from the composite on a prospective basis only.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions