---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: 
___
# 3.A.16
## Standard for Firms
Any [[CARVE-OUT]] included in a COMPOSITE MUST be representative of a standalone PORTFOLIO managed or intended to be managed according to that strategy.
## Discussion
A carve-out is a portion of a portfolio that is by itself representative of a distinct investment strategy. It may be used to create a track record for a narrower mandate from a multi-strategy or multi-asset-class portfolio managed to a broader mandate. A composite is an aggregation of one or more portfolios that are managed according to a similar investment mandate, objective, or strategy. If a firm includes a carve-out in a composite, the firm must believe that the carve-out is representative of a standalone portfolio that is managed or is intended to be managed according to that composite’s strategy. (A standalone portfolio is a portfolio that is not a portion of a larger portfolio.) If the carve-out is not representative of the composite’s investment strategy, it would be misleading to include the carve-out in the composite.

For example, suppose that a firm manages a global equity strategy. A typical portfolio managed in that strategy holds 100 stocks. The firm decides that it would like to offer a strategy that includes only Japanese equities. Portfolios managed in the global equity strategy currently include holdings of only four Japanese stocks. The firm may not create a carve-out of these four Japanese stocks to represent a Japanese equity strategy. A carve-out representing only four positions in a portfolio of 100 stocks is not representative of a standalone portfolio managed according to a Japanese equity strategy.

In contrast, suppose that the firm manages an Asian equity strategy. A typical portfolio managed in the Asian equity strategy includes 50 stocks, with 30 holdings representing Japanese companies. In this case, a carve-out of the 30 positions representing Japanese companies would likely be representative of a Japanese equity strategy the firm might offer. The number of positions, however, is only one indicator of whether the carve-out would be a representative carve-out. The firm would have to determine that the carve-out is truly representative of the Japanese equity strategy it is planning to offer.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions