---
tags: []
---
Links: [[3. Composite and Pooled Fund Maintenance]]
___
# 3.A.9
## Standard for Firms
Terminated PORTFOLIOS MUST be included in the historical performance of the COMPOSITE up to the last full measurement period that each PORTFOLIO was under management and for which the FIRM has discretion.
## Discussion
The requirement to include terminated portfolios in the composite’s historical performance up to the last full measurement period during which each portfolio was under management and for which the firm has discretion prevents survivorship bias by retaining the performance history of the portfolio while it was managed to the composite’s strategy. Once a client notifies the firm of the termination, the firm generally loses its discretion over the portfolio because the firm is restricted in its management of the portfolio. If this is the case, the firm must include the portfolio in the composite through the last full measurement period for which the firm has discretion and exclude it from the composite for subsequent periods. As an example, suppose that a firm was notified on 25 May of the termination of a portfolio and was instructed to immediately commence liquidating the portfolio. Assuming monthly performance measurement periods, because the firm lost discretion to manage the portfolio effective 25 May, the portfolio must be included in the composite return calculation for April and excluded from the composite return calculation for May. A firm must create policies and procedures regarding the handling of the termination of portfolios in a composite, and it must apply those policies and procedures consistently. The policies may be composite specific.

A change in the legal status of a portfolio alone would not be a valid reason to remove the portfolio from the composite. As an example, suppose that a firm managed a portfolio for an individual and, when the client passed away, the portfolio had to be closed and reopened as part of a trust rather than in the individual’s name. From the firm’s perspective, the portfolio was not terminated because the portfolio did not leave the firm and the firm never lost discretion over the portfolio. The change in the legal status of the portfolio alone is not a valid reason to remove the portfolio from the composite if the assets never left the portfolio, the firm was never restricted in its management of the portfolio, and the portfolio strategy remained unchanged. If the firm had to suspend trading for an extended period to allow for the change in legal status, however, it would be appropriate for the firm to temporarily remove the portfolio from the composite and re-include it when the transition to the trust was complete.

If all of the portfolios are removed from a composite, for any reason, the composite’s performance record comes to an end. If, after some period of time, portfolios are again included in the composite, the prior performance history of the composite must be presented. If time-weighted returns are being presented and the break in performance occurred more than 10 years ago, or before the firm claimed compliance with the GIPS standards, the performance prior to the break is not required to be presented. The composite’s prior performance history must not be linked to the ongoing composite performance results. If money-weighted returns (MWR) are being presented, MWRs may not be calculated across the break in performance. The firm must present a MWR for the period from inception to the break in performance. If portfolios in the composite have committed capital, the firm must present the information required by Provision [[5.A.4]] (e.g., committed capital and ratios) as of the end date of this return calculation. When portfolios are once again included in the composite, the firm must begin to calculate a MWR for the period after the break in performance through the most recent annual period end. If the break in performance occurred more than 10 years ago or before the firm claimed compliance with the GIPS standards, the MWR and the information required by Provision [[5.A.4]] (e.g., committed capital and ratios) prior to the break in performance are not required to be presented.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions