---
tags: []
---
Links: [[3. Composite and Pooled Fund Maintenance]]
___
# 3.A.8
## Standard for Firms
[[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]] MUST include only those portfolios that are managed for the full performance measurement period for which the COMPOSITE return is calculated. PORTFOLIOS that are not managed for the full performance measurement period MUST NOT be included in the [[COMPOSITE]].
## Discussion
When calculating composite time-weighted returns, firms must include in the composite only those portfolios that are managed for the full performance measurement period. This requirement applies to all methodologies for calculating composite performance, including the aggregate method.

When considering a composite for which time-weighted returns are presented, if performance intervals are calculated on a monthly basis, only portfolios that are managed for the full month are included in the composite return calculation. Including portfolios that were not managed for the full month would result in returns that are not truly representative of the strategy for the performance period being calculated. For example, assume the firm calculates composite returns monthly. When calculating the composite return for the month of March, only portfolios that have a full month of performance are included. A portfolio with an inception date of 5 March would not be included, nor would a portfolio that terminated on 23 March. To illustrate why the returns are not truly representative, assume the composite contains three portfolios for the full month of March for which the monthly portfolio returns are 3.4%, 3.5%, and 3.6%. The firm gets a new portfolio that starts 5 March, and because the first few days of March had strong performance that the new portfolio did not experience, the return of that portfolio is 1%. Another portfolio that was originally in the composite terminated on 23 March, and there was negative performance at the end of the month that the portfolio did not experience, so that portfolio’s return is 5%. To calculate a monthly composite return for March, it would not make sense to include the partial-period returns for the new and terminating portfolios, 1% and 5%, because those returns are missing part of the month. Additionally, there would be no beginning weight for the portfolio that opened on 5 March.

However, the first portfolio in a composite may be included in the composite when the portfolio is fully invested when it is the only portfolio in the composite for the full performance measurement period. Also, the last portfolio in a composite may be included in the composite until the day on which the firm loses discretion to manage the portfolio. A firm must create policies and procedures regarding the inclusion of new portfolios in a composite and the exclusion of terminated portfolios from a composite, and it must apply those policies and procedures consistently. The policies may be composite specific.

For a composite for which a money-weighted return (MWR) is presented, there is only a single since-inception MWR. If a composite for which a MWR is presented includes more than one portfolio, the MWR can be calculated by combining the cash flows and values of the individual portfolios using the aggregate method. Portfolios must be included in the composite calculation for the full period for which the portfolio is under management.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions