---
tags: []
---
Links: [[3. Composite and Pooled Fund Maintenance]]
___
# 3.A.11
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM sets a minimum asset level for PORTFOLIOS to be included in a [[COMPOSITE]], the FIRM:
- MUST NOT include PORTFOLIOS below the [[COMPOSITE]]-specific minimum asset level in that [[COMPOSITE]].
- MUST NOT apply retroactively any changes to that [[COMPOSITE]]-specific minimum asset level.
## Discussion
When a firm establishes a minimum asset level for including portfolios in a composite, the firm has determined that portfolios below that level are too small to be representative of the strategy. Once this level has been established, the firm must not include portfolios below the composite-specific minimum asset level in the composite.

Although firms may not retroactively change a composite-specific minimum asset level, firms attaining compliance may apply a composite minimum asset level retroactively. If a firm is initially coming into compliance with the GIPS standards and is building a compliant track record, it may establish a minimum asset level for a composite and apply that minimum asset level as it constructs the composite’s history. Firms must document and disclose any subsequent changes to the composite’s minimum asset level and must not retroactively apply the new limit.

Portfolios may fall below the minimum asset level as a result of client withdrawals or depreciation (decrease in asset value). A firm’s policies regarding minimum asset levels must define, for each composite with a minimum asset level, whether the composite minimum asset level policy is applied only when a portfolio is first invested in the composite or if it is applied for all periods. There are different approaches to establishing policies and procedures for minimum asset levels.

- Some firms see the composite minimum asset level as a limitation only when initially investing the portfolio and believe that portfolios that subsequently fall below the minimum asset level continue to reflect the composite strategy. These firms establish a composite minimum asset level that applies only to the portfolio’s initial size.
- Some firms have policies that apply to the portfolio’s initial size and also to subsequent decreases in market value that result from external cash flows and not to market activity. Firms that leave portfolios in the composite when they fall below the minimum asset level as a result of market activity must have policies that address the appropriate action when a portfolio that is below the minimum asset level has a withdrawal and the portfolio cannot be rebalanced to the composite strategy.
- Some firms believe that assigning a composite minimum asset level means that the firm must have a certain amount of assets to manage the portfolio on an ongoing basis as well as to initially invest the portfolio. Such firms view a portfolio falling below the minimum asset level for any reason, including external cash flows or market activity, as non-discretionary.

If a firm’s policies regarding minimum asset levels require that a portfolio be removed from a composite solely as a result of market activity, and the firm calculates composite returns monthly, the portfolio should remain in the composite during the first month it drops below the composite minimum because of market fluctuations. A decrease in value resulting from market fluctuations reflects the portfolio manager’s performance and, therefore, should be captured in the composite return. When firms test the composite minimum using the end-of-month value, this has the unintended consequence of creating an upward bias for the composite return because the firm is removing portfolios with negative performance from the composite. The test for minimum assets should therefore be done using beginning-of-month values, not ending values.

Each of these approaches is consistent with the requirements regarding minimum asset levels. It is critical that if a firm establishes a minimum asset level for a composite, it must document its policies regarding how portfolios will be treated if they fall below the minimum and must apply these policies consistently.

When establishing policies and procedures regarding a minimum asset level, firms may consider establishing a threshold for applying both the minimum asset level and a minimum time period in order to minimize portfolio movement into or out of a composite. For example, a firm’s policies might establish a threshold of 10% below the minimum asset level when determining if a portfolio should be removed from the composite. The firm’s policies might also indicate that a portfolio must remain below/above the minimum for at least two periods prior to removal/addition.

If a portfolio is removed from a composite because it falls below the composite-specific minimum asset level, the portfolio’s prior history must remain in the composite. Like all policies, once the firm establishes a policy regarding the minimum asset level, it must be applied consistently. Once a portfolio is removed, the firm must determine if the portfolio meets any other composite definition and, if so, must include it in the appropriate composite(s) in a timely and consistent manner. For example, a firm might determine it needs a minimum of $5 million to implement its Broad Large-Cap strategy. Portfolios below the $5 million minimum are invested in a concentrated variation of this strategy and are included in the Concentrated Broad Large-Cap Composite. In this case, although the investment mandate may be the same, the strategy is implemented differently based on the portfolio’s size.

Firms should bear in mind that if all the portfolios in a composite fall below the minimum asset level and, according to the firm’s policies, are removed from the composite, the composite’s performance record would come to an end. If, after some period of time, portfolios move above the minimum asset level or new portfolios are added to the composite, the composite’s prior performance history must be shown but not linked to the ongoing composite performance results.

Note that a composite’s historical performance does not change if a firm establishes a new minimum asset level for the composite. If a firm chooses to implement a new minimum asset level or change the minimum asset level for an existing composite, the firm must document and disclose the new minimum or change to the minimum and apply the new minimum consistently going forward. The firm must not go back and restate historical performance to include or exclude portfolios using the new minimum asset level. Prospectively, the firm will include in the composite only those portfolios that meet the new minimum asset level for the composite. As pointed out earlier, however, if a firm is initially coming into compliance with the GIPS standards and is building a compliant track record, the firm may establish a minimum asset level for a composite and apply that minimum asset level as it constructs a composite’s history.

It is important to be aware of the difference between a composite minimum and a product minimum. A composite minimum represents the size below which a portfolio is considered too small to be managed to a specific strategy because the strategy cannot be fully implemented. A composite minimum determines whether a portfolio is included in a composite. A product minimum is used for marketing purposes as a guideline for accepting new segregated accounts. A firm may accept new clients that have less than the stated product minimum. A firm may have a product minimum and no composite minimum, a composite minimum and no product minimum, or different amounts for a product minimum and a composite minimum. As Provision [[3.B.1]] points out, if a firm has one or more composite minimums, it should not present a GIPS Composite Report to a prospective client for any composite for which the prospective client is known not to meet the composite’s minimum asset level.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions