---
tags: []
---
Links: [[3. Composite and Pooled Fund Maintenance]]
___
# 3.A.17
## Standard for Firms
When the FIRM creates a [[CARVE-OUT]] of a particular strategy, allocates cash to the [[CARVE-OUT]], and includes the [[CARVE-OUT]] in a [[COMPOSITE]], the FIRM MUST create [[CARVE-OUT|CARVE-OUTS]] with allocated cash from all PORTFOLIOS and PORTFOLIO segments within the FIRM managed to that strategy and MUST include those [[CARVE-OUT|CARVE-OUTS]] with allocated cash in the [[COMPOSITE]].
## Discussion
A carve-out is a portion of a portfolio that is by itself representative of a distinct investment strategy. It may be used to create a track record for a narrower mandate from a multi-strategy or multi-asset-class portfolio managed to a broader mandate. The GIPS standards are based on the principles of fair representation and full disclosure. It would not be in keeping with these principles to “cherry pick” which carve-outs managed to a particular strategy are included in a composite. When a firm creates a carve-out of a particular strategy, allocates cash to the carve-out, and includes the carve-out in a composite, the firm must create carve-outs with allocated cash from all portfolios and portfolio segments within the firm that are managed to that strategy and include all such carve-outs in the relevant composite. This must be done for all periods for which the carve-out is included in the composite.

When creating a composite that includes carve-outs with allocated cash, firms are encouraged to go as far back into the history of the carve-out strategy as possible. The longer the performance history provided for a composite that includes carve-outs with allocated cash, the more representative of the strategy the composite will be. A firm must not select the periods to include in GIPS Reports by cherry-picking periods that present the firm in a better light.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions