---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: 
___
# 3.A.13
## Standard for Firms
A FIRM that uses TEMPORARY NEW ACCOUNTS to remove the effect of a SIGNIFICANT CASH FLOW MUST establish policies on an [[EX ANTE]], [[COMPOSITE]]-specific basis. TEMPORARY NEW ACCOUNTS MUST NOT be included in COMPOSITE performance.
## Discussion
As discussed in Provision [[3.A.12]], a firm may establish a significant cash flow policy that allows the firm to remove a portfolio from a composite if it experiences a client-directed external cash flow that may temporarily prevent the firm from implementing the composite strategy. An alternative method for removing the effect of a significant cash flow is to use temporary new accounts.

If a portfolio experiences a significant cash inflow, the firm would create a temporary new account for the inflow of assets. The funds would remain in the temporary new account until they are invested and reflect the portfolio’s investment mandate. The performance of the assets in the temporary new account would not be reflected in the main portfolio’s performance until these assets are transferred into the main portfolio. The temporary new account must not be included in composite performance. The assets of the temporary new account would be reflected in total firm assets if the temporary new account is in existence at the end of a reporting period, but they would not be included in composite assets.

If the portfolio experiences a cash outflow that qualifies as a significant cash flow, the firm may create a temporary new account for the outflow of assets. The temporary new account would be funded with the assets the firm will distribute to the client or will liquidate to meet the cash flow needs of the client. The portfolio with the remaining assets would continue in the composite and would reflect the outflow in the performance calculation at the date of transfer to the temporary new account. The temporary new account must not be included in composite performance.

The assets of the temporary new account would be reflected in total firm assets if it is in existence at the end of a reporting period but would not be included in composite assets.

A firm that uses temporary new accounts to remove the effect of a significant cash flow must establish policies on an ex ante composite-specific basis. A temporary new account may also be used for pooled funds to deal with cash flows from subscriptions and redemptions. For example, assume a pooled fund has quarterly openings. Fund investors contribute cash prior to the quarterly subscription date, and the firm puts the cash into a temporary new account. On the first day of the quarter, the firm transfers the cash to the fund. The temporary new account used to hold the contributions is not included in any composite or reflected in the pooled fund’s performance.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions