---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: 
___
# 3.A.7
## Standard for Firms
[[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]] MUST include new PORTFOLIOS on a timely and consistent [[COMPOSITE]]-specific basis after each PORTFOLIO comes under management.
## Discussion
The firm is responsible for setting reasonable guidelines for each composite regarding the inclusion of new portfolios. Firms are encouraged to establish a policy that includes new portfolios in composites as soon as possible, preferably at the start of the next full performance measurement period. The measurement period is the period for which the composite performance is calculated.

Firms may need time to invest the assets of a new portfolio to reflect the firm’s investment strategy, and the GIPS standards allow firms flexibility in determining when to add the new portfolio to the composite. Different strategies may result in different time frames for inclusion based on the liquidity of the assets involved. Although in most situations it is fairly easy to purchase and sell securities, some securities may be more illiquid and, therefore, a longer period of time may initially be required to implement the firm’s strategy. Firms must establish a policy on a composite-specific basis and apply it on a timely and consistent basis.

In the case of specific instructions from the client, firms may delay including a new portfolio in a composite. For example, a client may indicate to the firm that assets will be deposited over an extended period, which may delay the full implementation of the firm’s strategy until all assets are received. This scenario can result in an exception to the composite’s new portfolio inclusion policy. If a firm determines that the incremental investing does not affect the implementation of the style or strategy, however, the firm must follow its composite-specific policy for including new portfolios in the composite.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions