---
tags: []
---
Tags: 
Links: 
___
# 3.A.15
## Standard for Firms
Any [[CARVE-OUT]] included in a COMPOSITE MUST include cash and any related income. Cash may be:
- Accounted for separately, or
- Allocated synthetically to the [[CARVE-OUT]] on a timely and consistent basis.
## Discussion
A carve-out is a portion of a portfolio that is by itself representative of a distinct investment strategy. It is used to create a track record for a narrower mandate from a multi-strategy or multi-assetclass portfolio managed to a broader mandate. A carve-out is sometimes managed with its own cash. In other cases, cash is synthetically allocated to a carve-out. For periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010, firms were prohibited from including carve-outs with allocated cash in composites. To be included in a composite, a carve-out had to be managed with its own cash. When complying with the 2020 edition of the GIPS standards, firms are once again allowed to include carve-outs with allocated cash in composites and may do so for all periods, both retrospectively and prospectively. A carve-out included in a composite must include cash and any related income, with the cash either accounted for separately or allocated synthetically. If firms choose to synthetically allocate cash to a carve-out, they must do so on a timely and consistent basis and must create carve-outs with allocated cash from all portfolios and portfolio segments within the firm managed to that strategy.

Note that carve-outs managed with their own cash balance are not subject to the requirements that apply to carve-outs with allocated cash. However, if a firm includes a carve-out that is managed with its own cash balance in a composite, all similar carve-outs that have been created and have their own cash balance must also be included in that composite.

The following are some acceptable methods that may be used to allocate cash synthetically to a carve-out:
- _Beginning-of-Period Cash Allocation._ Cash is allocated based on the beginning value of the carve-out as a percentage of the beginning value of the total portfolio excluding cash.
- _Beginning-of-Period Plus Weighted Cash Flow Allocation._ Cash is allocated based on the beginning value plus weighted cash flows of the carve-out as a percentage of the beginning value plus weighted cash flows of the total portfolio, excluding cash.
- _Strategic Asset Cash Allocation (true up actual)._ The cash allocation is based directly on the target strategic asset allocation. For example, if the portfolio is targeted to have 40% in equities and 60% in bonds, then the allocation of cash will be the difference between the targeted allocation and the actual allocation. If the portfolio had a target allocation of 40% but at the beginning of the period held only 35% in equities, then the cash allocation would constitute the difference (5%).
- _Strategic Asset Cash Allocation (target weights)._ An alternative method for strategic asset cash allocation is to allocate cash solely on the basis of target strategic asset allocation and not on the actual beginning-of-period allocation. In this case, 40% of the cash would be allocated to equities and 60% of the cash to bonds, regardless of the actual beginning-of-period allocation to equities and bonds.

Firms must determine which method to use for each composite, document it in their policies and procedures, and apply the method consistently. In all cases, the cash return must be the portfolio’s actual cash return. A cash return proxy must not be used.

It is important for firms to be aware that when calculating returns for carve-outs, cash flows that are considered to be internal cash flows for the total portfolio may need to be treated as external cash flows at the carve-out level. For example, the sale of an equity position would be considered an internal cash flow at the total portfolio level, but it must be treated like an external cash flow when calculating performance at the equity carve-out level (the sold assets transfer out of the equity segment and the cash proceeds are an inflow to the cash segment). Firms must establish policies for carve-outs that address valuation frequency, calculation methods, large cash flows, and significant cash flows.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions