---
tags: []
---
Links: [[3. Composite and Pooled Fund Maintenance]], [[3.A.5 Definition Guiding Principles]] [[3.A.5 Composite Definition Hierarchy]]
___
# 3.A.5
## Standard for Firms
[[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]] MUST be defined according to investment mandate, objective, or strategy.

[[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]] MUST include all PORTFOLIOS, including SEGREGATED ACCOUNTS and POOLED FUNDS, that meet the [[COMPOSITE DEFINITION]]. The FIRM MUST NOT exclude PORTFOLIOS from [[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]] based solely on legal structure differences.
## Discussion
### Overview
A composite is an aggregation of one or more portfolios (segregated accounts or pooled funds) managed according to a similar investment mandate, objective, or strategy. Creating meaningful composites is critical to fair presentation, consistency, and comparability of results over time and among firms. Firms make the ultimate decision as to which portfolios belong in each composite. Pooled funds are required to be included in a composite only if they are managed according to a strategy that is managed for or offered as a segregated account and they meet the composite definition.

To create appropriate composites, it is important to understand what is meant by a composite description and a composite definition. For many of the provisions of the GIPS standards, it is important to understand the difference between a composite description and a composite definition.

A _composite description_ is defined as general information regarding the investment mandate, objective, or strategy of the composite. The composite description may be more abbreviated than the composite definition but must include all key features of the composite and must include enough information to allow a prospective client to understand the key characteristics of the composite’s investment mandate, objective, or strategy, including:
- the material risks of the composite’s strategy.
- how leverage, derivatives, and short positions may be used, if they are a material part of the strategy.
- if illiquid investments are a material part of the strategy.

A _composite definition_ is defined as detailed criteria that determine the assignment of portfolios to composites. Criteria may include, but are not limited to, investment mandate, style or strategy, asset class, the use of derivatives, leverage and/or hedging, targeted risk metrics, investment constraints or restrictions, and/or portfolio type (e.g., segregated account or pooled fund; taxable versus tax exempt).

To differentiate between a composite definition and a composite description, it might be helpful to think of a composite description as focused on a description of the strategy represented by the composite. In contrast, a composite definition includes not only the composite strategy, as represented by the composite description, but also the detailed criteria that determine whether and when a portfolio is included in a composite. These additional criteria include such factors as the new portfolio inclusion policy, as well as any policies regarding significant cash flows or minimum asset size that are applicable to the composite. Firms must use their judgment when determining what information is appropriate to include in a composite description and composite definition for a specific strategy. Firms are encouraged to include more than the required minimum information in a composite description or composite definition if doing so will help a prospective client or prospective investor understand both the nature of the portfolios included in the composite and the strategy used.

Composite descriptions are disclosed in GIPS Composite Reports and on the List of Composite Descriptions. Composite definitions must be documented in the firm’s policies and procedures.

The following table shows some examples of the items typically included in a composite description and a composite definition. An actual composite description and composite definition will be specific to the composite and may include items not on this list and may not include some items on this list.

| Item                                                                                       | Included in Composite Description | Included in Composite Definition |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :-------------------------------: | :------------------------------: |
| _Description of Strategy_                                                                  |                                   |                                  |
| Investment mandate, objective, or strategy                                                 |                 X                 |                X                 |
| Portfolio type                                                                             |                 X                 |                X                 |
| Asset class                                                                                |                 X                 |                X                 |
| Investments used                                                                           |                 X                 |                X                 |
| Client type (institutional, retail)                                                        |                 X                 |                X                 |
| Investment constraints/restrictions                                                        |                 X                 |                X                 |
| Material risks of strategy                                                                 |                 X                 |                X                 |
| How leverage, derivatives, and short positions may be used, if a material part of strategy |                 X                 |                X                 |
| If illiquid investments are a material part of strategy                                    |                 X                 |                X                 |
| Benchmark                                                                                  |           X<sup>1</sup>           |                X                 |
| _Composite Inclusion/Exclusion Policies (if applicable)_                                   |                                   |                                  |
| Timing of inclusion of new portfolios                                                      |                                   |                X                 |
| Timing of exclusion of closed portfolios                                                   |                                   |                X                 |
| Minimum size policy                                                                        |                                   |                X                 |
| Significant cash flow policy                                                               |                                   |                X                 |
| Tax status                                                                                 |           X<sup>2</sup>           |                X                 |
| Targeted risk metrics                                                                      |                                   |                X                 |
<sup>1</sup>Often included in composite descriptions but required in composite description if the benchmark is one of the criteria for assigning portfolios to a composite—that is, portfolios must be managed against a particular index to be included in the composite.
<sup>2</sup>If portfolios are assigned to the composite based on tax status, the composite description must include the tax status. If tax status is simply information about the type of portfolios included in the composite, it can be included in the composite definition only.
#### Examples
##### Intermediate-Maturity Fixed-Income Composite
###### _Composite Description_
The Intermediate-Maturity Fixed-Income Composite includes all institutional portfolios that invest in intermediate-maturity government and corporate bonds. All bonds have a credit rating of BBB or higher. Key risks include the risk of default of corporate bonds and the negative effect of rising interest rates on bond prices.
###### _Composite Definition_
The Intermediate-Maturity Fixed-Income Composite includes all institutional portfolios that invest in intermediate-maturity government and corporate bonds. All bonds have a credit rating of BBB or higher. Key risks include the risk of default of corporate bonds and the negative effect of rising interest rates on bond prices. New portfolios are added to the composite when they are fully invested, as indicated by a cash position of 5% or less. The minimum size for inclusion of new portfolios in the composite is $5 million. Before a new portfolio is added to a composite, it must be at or above the minimum size for the composite as of the prior month end. Tolerance for violation of the minimum size is established at 10%. If a portfolio falls below 10% of the minimum size at the end of one month, it is removed from the composite the following month. When the portfolio has returned to the minimum size by month end, it is returned to the composite in the following month. If a portfolio experiences a 15% cash inflow during a calendar month, it is automatically removed from the composite for that month. Following the policy for inclusion of new portfolios in the composite, if the cash level is 5% or less at month end, the portfolio will be returned to the composite in the following month. A cash outflow of 15% during a calendar month will trigger an automatic removal of a portfolio from the composite. The portfolio will be returned to the composite in the month following the outflow if it continues to meet other composite criteria, such as size. A portfolio may be removed from a composite prior to the month of the actual cash flow if there is a significant buildup of cash to prepare for the outflow.
##### US Large-Cap Growth Composite
###### _Composite Description_
The US Large-Cap Growth Composite includes all tax-exempt, institutional segregated accounts that invest in large-capitalization US stocks considered to have earnings growth prospects that are superior to that of the average company within the benchmark, the XYZ Large-Cap Growth Index. The targeted tracking error is less than 4% per annum.
###### _Composite Definition_
The US Large-Cap Growth Composite includes all tax exempt, institutional segregated accounts that invest in large-capitalization US stocks considered to have earnings growth prospects that are superior to that of the average company within the benchmark, the XYZ Large-Cap Growth Index. The targeted tracking error is less than 4% per annum.

The US Large-Cap Growth Composite includes only discretionary institutional tax-exempt portfolios. A portfolio is defined as discretionary if it is free of any unique client needs or restrictions that will materially affect performance. The minimum size for inclusion in the composite is $1 million. When a new large-cap growth portfolio is fully invested (a cash level of 10% or less) at month end, it will be added to the composite in the following month. Terminated portfolios are included in the composite through the last full month for which the firm has discretion. The termination date is based on the notification date of the loss of the portfolio (i.e., the date on which discretion was lost) rather than the date of the actual closing of the portfolio.

A Significant Cash Flow (SCF) policy was adopted for the Large-Cap Growth Composite starting 1 February 2015. The SCF policy is triggered by a net cash inflow or outflow of 15% or more of portfolio assets during a calendar month. If a portfolio in the composite experiences a 15% or greater cash inflow during a calendar month, it is automatically removed from the composite for that month. If the cash level is 10% or less at month end, the portfolio will be returned to the portfolio in the following month. A cash outflow of 15% or more will trigger an automatic removal of a portfolio from the composite. The portfolio will be returned to the composite in the month following the outflow if it continues to meet other composite criteria, such as size. A portfolio may be removed from the composite prior to the month of the actual cash flow if there is a significant buildup of cash to prepare for the outflow.

The Large-Cap Growth Composite has a composite inception date of 1 July 2012 and a composite creation date of 1 April 2014.
### Overview cont.
The firm must determine what definition of the composite is most appropriate: either a broad, “inclusive” definition, with a potential for a wide internal dispersion of portfolio returns, or a narrow, “exclusive” definition, with a potential for a smaller internal dispersion of portfolio returns.

The GIPS standards require firms to develop objective criteria for defining composites.

[[3.A.5 Definition Guiding Principles]] Section is a separate note.
[[3.A.5 Composite Definition Hierarchy]] Section is a separate note.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions