---
tags: []
---
Links: [[3. Composite and Pooled Fund Maintenance]]
___
# 3.A.1
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST create [[COMPOSITE|COMPOSITES]] for the FIRM’S strategies that are managed for or offered as a SEGREGATED ACCOUNT.
## Discussion
A composite is an aggregation of one or more portfolios (segregated accounts and/or pooled funds) managed according to a similar investment mandate, strategy, or objective. A firm must create a composite for each of the firm’s strategies that is managed for or offered as a segregated account. A segregated account is a portfolio owned by a single client. A portfolio with a pooled fund wrapper (i.e., a single-investor pooled fund), which is unitized but is not available to other investors, is considered a segregated account. If a firm is a sub-advisor for a pooled fund, the firm must treat the sub-advised pooled fund as a segregated account. A composite will contain only one portfolio if the firm has only one portfolio that is managed for or offered as a segregated account for a particular strategy.

For periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020, firms are not required to create or maintain composites that include only one or more pooled funds if the strategy of the pooled fund(s) is not offered as a segregated account.

It is important to remember that the GIPS standards do not differentiate between “marketed” and “non-marketed” composites. The requirement to create composites applies to all strategies that are offered as a segregated account, or managed for a segregated account, whether or not the strategy is marketed by the firm. All composites must be included on the list of composite descriptions (see Provision [[1.A.22]]), and the firm must be able to provide a GIPS Composite Report for any composite that is included on this list (see Provision [[1.A.24]]).

If a firm manages portfolios with overlay strategies, the firm is required to create an overlay composite for an overlay strategy when the overlay strategy is managed separately from the underlying portfolio and the firm offers the overlay strategy as a segregated account. Firms are not required to create an overlay strategy composite when the overlay strategy is implemented as part of a broader strategy but may do so.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions