---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 4.B.1
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM SHOULD present both GROSS-OF-FEES and NET-OF-FEES [[COMPOSITE]] returns.
## Discussion
For all composites except wrap fee composites, a firm may choose to present either gross-of-fees or net-of-fees composite returns in a GIPS Composite Report. For wrap fee composites, firms are required to present composite returns that are net of the entire wrap fee. Each type of return provides important information to prospective clients.

Because a gross-of-fees return is the return on investments reduced by any transaction costs, it is the best measure of the firm’s investment management ability and can be thought of as the “investment return.” In addition, because fees are sometimes negotiable, presenting gross-of-fees returns shows the firm’s expertise in managing assets without the effect of the firm’s or client’s negotiating skills. Gross-of-fees returns also allow prospective clients to better compare performance between firms.

Net-of-fees composite returns reflect the deduction of transaction costs and investment management fees. Net-of-fees returns therefore provide the best indication to prospective clients of the returns that the firm’s clients received or would have received over time, after taking into account the effect of investment management costs.

Because both gross-of-fees and net-of-fees returns provide important information to prospective clients, it is recommended that firms present both gross-of-fees and net-of-fees composite returns in a GIPS Composite Report.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions