---
tags: []
---
Links: [[7. Pooled Fund Money-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 7.A.8
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM chooses to present [[POOLED FUND]] uncalled [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]] or a combination of [[POOLED FUND]] assets and [[POOLED FUND]] uncalled [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]], the FIRM MUST:
- Present [[POOLED FUND]] uncalled [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]] for the same periods for which the combination of [[POOLED FUND]] assets and [[POOLED FUND]] uncalled [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]] is presented.
- Clearly label [[POOLED FUND]] uncalled [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]] as such.
- Clearly label the combination of [[POOLED FUND]] assets and [[POOLED FUND]] uncalled [[COMMITTED CAPITAL]] as such.
## Discussion
Committed capital is defined as pledges of capital to an investment vehicle by investors (limited partners and the general partner) or the firm and is typically drawn down over a period of time. Uncalled committed capital, also known as dry powder, is the amount of capital that has not yet been drawn. Because uncalled committed capital is not considered actual pooled fund assets, pooled fund uncalled committed capital must not be included in the calculation of pooled fund assets as of 1 January 2020. This is consistent with the requirement to not include uncalled committed capital in total firm assets for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020. (See Provision [[2.A.1]]) A firm may report pooled fund uncalled committed capital in addition to the required presentation of pooled fund assets, if it wishes to do so. The inclusion of information on pooled fund uncalled committed capital provides prospective investors with a more complete picture of the firm’s investments and the amount of capital that is currently committed to a future investment. If a firm chooses to present information on pooled fund uncalled committed capital it may present pooled fund uncalled committed capital as either:
- a separate value, or
- the combination of pooled fund assets and pooled fund uncalled committed capital.

If a firm chooses to present pooled fund uncalled committed capital as a separate value, the information must be clearly labeled.

If a firm chooses to present the combination of pooled fund assets and pooled fund uncalled committed capital, it must present pooled fund uncalled committed capital for the same periods for which the combination of pooled fund assets and pooled fund uncalled committed capital is presented. Both pooled fund uncalled committed capital and the combination of pooled fund assets and pooled fund uncalled committed capital must be clearly labeled as such.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions