---
tags: []
---
Links: [[7. Pooled Fund Money-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 7.A.2
## Standard for Firms
If a SUBSCRIPTION LINE OF CREDIT is used, the FIRM MUST present the POOLED FUND SINCE-INCEPTION [[MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURN]] both with and without the SUBSCRIPTION LINE OF CREDIT through the most recent annual period end. The FIRM is not REQUIRED to present returns without the SUBSCRIPTION LINE OF CREDIT when the SUBSCRIPTION LINE OF CREDIT has all of the following characteristics.
- The principal was repaid within 120 days using committed capital drawn down through a capital call.
- No principal was used to fund [[DISTRIBUTION|DISTRIBUTIONS]].

Required for periods ending on or after 31 December 2020.
## Discussion
A subscription line of credit (LOC) is a loan facility that is usually put in place to facilitate administration when firms are calling for funds from investors. A subscription LOC can have a significant effect on returns. However, there has been a lack of consistency in return calculations when a subscription LOC is used. For comparability and transparency, firms that use a subscription LOC must calculate and present the since-inception money-weighted return (SI-MWR) that includes the subscription LOC. For periods ending on or after 31 December 2020, firms are required to also calculate and present a SI-MWR that does not include the subscription LOC unless the subscription LOC has the following two characteristics:
- The principal was repaid within 120 days using committed capital drawn down through a capital call; and
- No principal was used to fund distributions.

If the subscription LOC has both of these characteristics, the firm is not required to calculate and present a SI-MWR that does not include the subscription LOC.

Presenting pooled fund returns with and without the subscription LOC provides prospective investors with a more complete understanding of the pooled fund’s performance and the effect of the subscription LOC on the pooled fund’s returns.

If returns both with and without the subscription LOC are required to be presented in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report, these returns must be comparable. If the firm presents gross returns only, gross returns with and without the subscription LOC must be presented. If the firm presents net returns only, net returns with and without the subscription LOC must be presented. If the firm presents both gross and net returns, the firm must present gross returns with and without the subscription LOC as well as net returns with and without the subscription LOC.

The SI-MWRs with and without the subscription LOC are required for the SI-MWR that is presented through the most recent annual period end. If a firm chooses to also include SI-MWRs through each annual period end, the SI-MWRs with and without the subscription LOC must be presented in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report.

See Provision [[2.A.50]] for guidance for calculating returns with and without the subscription LOC.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions