---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 7.A.1.d
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST present in each [[GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT]]:
- The SINCE-INCEPTION [[MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURN]] for the BENCHMARK for the same periods as presented for the POOLED FUND, unless the FIRM determines there is no appropriate BENCHMARK.
## Discussion
Benchmarks are important tools that aid in the planning, implementation, and evaluation of a pooled fund’s investment policy. They also help facilitate discussions with prospective investors regarding the relationship between risk and return. As a result, firms are required to present the since-inception money-weighted return (SI-MWR) for the benchmark for the same periods as presented for the pooled fund, unless the firm determines that there is no appropriate benchmark.

The benchmark presented must be one that reflects the pooled fund’s investment mandate, objective, or strategy. A firm may choose to present more than one benchmark in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report but must include all required information for all benchmarks presented in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report.

Because the benchmark selected for a pooled fund must be appropriate for comparison with the performance of the pooled fund, a firm must not compare a time-weighted return (TWR) benchmark with a pooled fund’s SI-MWR. Public market indexes by themselves are not directly comparable to an MWR because the market indexes typically use TWRs. The public market equivalent (PME) is a method in which a public market index is used to create a comparable MWR from a series of cash flows that replicate those of the pooled fund and that can be compared with the pooled fund’s MWR. When the firm uses a PME, the market index used must be a total return benchmark.

For pooled funds that have a subscription line of credit (LOC), and the firm is required to present pooled fund returns both with and without the subscription LOC (see Provision [[7.A.2]]), the firm must present benchmark returns for the same periods as both pooled fund returns. If the benchmark is a PME, the firm must calculate a PME using the pooled fund cash flows with the subscription LOC as well as the pooled fund cash flows without the subscription LOC.

See Provision [[1.A.19]] for a discussion of total return benchmarks. See the discussion of

Provision [[7.C.29]] for additional information regarding a PME.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions