---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 7.A.10
## Standard for Firms
If the FIRM chooses to present [[ADVISORY-ONLY ASSETS]] that reflect the POOLED FUND’S investment mandate, objective, or strategy or a combination of POOLED FUND assets and [[ADVISORY-ONLY ASSETS]] that reflect the POOLED FUND’S investment mandate, objective, or strategy, the FIRM MUST:
- Present [[ADVISORY-ONLY ASSETS]] that reflect the POOLED FUND’S investment mandate, objective, or strategy for the same periods for which the combination of POOLED FUND assets and [[ADVISORY-ONLY ASSETS]] that reflect the POOLED FUND’S investment mandate, objective, or strategy is presented.
- Clearly label [[ADVISORY-ONLY ASSETS]] that reflect the POOLED FUND’S investment mandate, objective, or strategy as such.
- Clearly label the combination of POOLED FUND assets and [[ADVISORY-ONLY ASSETS]] that reflect the POOLED FUND’S investment mandate, objective, or strategy as such.
## Discussion
Pooled fund advisory-only assets are assets for which the firm provides investment recommendations in line with the pooled fund’s strategy but for which the firm has no control over implementation of investment decisions and no trading authority for the assets. Although pooled fund advisory-only assets must not be included in the calculation of pooled fund assets because the firm does not manage these assets, a firm may wish to provide information on pooled fund advisory-only assets that reflect the pooled fund’s investment mandate, objective, or strategy, in addition to the required presentation of pooled fund assets. The inclusion of information on pooled fund advisory-only assets provides prospective investors additional information about a firm’s business model and the types of investment-related services that it provides. If a firm chooses to present information on pooled fund advisory-only assets, it may present pooled fund advisory-only assets as either:
- a separate value, or
- the combination of pooled fund assets and pooled fund advisory-only assets.

If a firm chooses to present pooled fund advisory-only assets as a separate value, the information must be clearly labeled.

If a firm chooses to present the combination of pooled fund assets and pooled fund advisory-only assets, the firm must present pooled fund advisory-only assets for the same periods for which the combination of pooled fund assets and pooled fund advisory-only assets is presented. Both pooled fund advisory-only assets and the combination of pooled fund assets and pooled fund advisory-only assets must be clearly labeled as such.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions