---
tags: []
---
Links: [[7. Pooled Fund Money-Weighted Return Report]]
___
# 7.A.12
## Standard for Firms
All REQUIRED and RECOMMENDED information in the [[GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT]] MUST be presented in the same currency.
## Discussion
Firms must present all required and recommended information in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report in the same currency (e.g., pooled fund and benchmark returns, pooled fund assets, and total firm assets). This requirement is not applicable to the fee schedule. Supplemental information should also be presented in the same currency. If it is not, that fact must be disclosed. Not disclosing this fact could be misleading.

If a firm chooses to present a pooled fund in a different currency, the firm must convert all of the required information into the new currency. If the firm chooses to present performance in multiple currencies in the same GIPS Pooled Fund Report, the firm must convert all of the required information into each of the currencies and ensure it is clear in which currencies performance is reported. The firm must also convert any recommended information it chooses to present in the GIPS Pooled Fund Report containing the converted information.

The GIPS standards do not require or recommend a particular method for converting performance from one currency to another. One option for converting returns into a different currency is to convert the underlying data (values and external cash flows) into the selected currency using the exchange rate on the date of each cash flow or valuation date, and then calculate the pooled fund returns based on the converted data.

It is not acceptable to convert returns by applying the exchange rate as of the current period end to the historical data, including cash flows and valuations, used to calculate returns.

It is up to the firm to determine the pooled fund-specific conversion method. Policies and procedures for converting returns must be established, documented, and applied consistently.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions