---
tags: []
---
Tags:
Links: 
___
# 7.A.1.a
## Standard for Firms
The FIRM MUST present in each GIPS POOLED FUND REPORT:
- The annualized POOLED FUND SINCE-INCEPTION MONEY-WEIGHTED RETURN through the most recent annual period end.

Required for periods ending on or after 31 December 2020. For periods ending prior to 31 December 2020, firms may present either total firm assets or pooled fund assets as a percentage of total firm assets.
## Discussion
To claim compliance, a firm is required to meet all applicable requirements of the GIPS standards on a firm-wide basis for at least a five-year period, or since inception of the firm if the firm has been in existence for less than five years. See Provision [[1.A.3]] for a discussion of the required periods for initially claiming compliance.

If a firm meets the requirements for presenting money-weighted returns in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report (see Provision [[1.A.35]]) and chooses to do so, the firm must present the annualized pooled fund since-inception money-weighted return (SI-MWR) through the most recent annual period end.

For example, assume a firm presents returns on a calendar year-end basis. If a pooled fund has an inception date of 1 March 2015 and the most recent annual period end is 31 December 2019, the firm must present an annualized pooled fund SI-MWR from 1 March 2015 through 31 December 2019. Although only the annualized pooled fund SI-MWR through the most recent annual period end is required, it is recommended that firms present annualized pooled fund SI-MWRs through each annual period end. (See Provision [[7.B.1]]) In this example, doing so would mean presenting SI-MWRs from 1 March 2015 through 31 December 2015, 1 March 2015 through 31 December 2016, 1 March 2015 through 31 December 2017, and 1 March 2015 through 31 December 2018.

The SI-MWR from 1 March 2015 through 31 December 2015 must not be annualized because the return is for a period of less than one year.

Firms must clearly label the periods for which SI-MWRs are presented. Firms must select the annual period end for which SI-MWRs will be presented on a pooled fund-specific basis and apply it consistently. For purposes of comparability, best practice would be for a firm to report pooled fund SI-MWRs for periods ending on 31 December.

Firms may present pooled fund gross returns or pooled fund net returns. Firms may also choose to present both pooled fund gross returns and pooled fund net returns in a GIPS Pooled Fund Report.
## Q&A

## Personal Notes

### Questions